1	And the chiefs of the people dwelt in Jerusalem: and the rest of the people cast lots to bring one from ten to dwell in Jerusalem the holy city, and nine hands in the cities.
2	And the people will praise to all the men volunteering to dwell in Jerusalem.
3	And these the heads of the province that dwelt in Jerusalem: and in the cities of Judah they dwelt, each in his possession in their cities of Israel, the priests and the Levites, and the Nethinims, and the sons of Solomon’s servants.
4	And in Jerusalem dwelt from the sons of Judah, and from the sons of Benjamin, from the sons of Judah: Athaiah son of Uzziel, son of Zechariah, son of Amariah, son of Shephatiah, son of Mahaleel, from the sons of Perez;
5	And Maaseiah son of Baruch, son of Col-Hozeth, son of Hazaiah, son of Adaiah, son of Joiarib, son of Zechariah, son of Shiloni.
6	All the sons of Perez dwelling in Jerusalem, four hundred sixty and eight, men of strength.
7	And these the sons of Benjamin: Sallu, son of Meshullam, son of Joed, son of Pedaiah, son of Kolaiah, son of Maaseiah, son of Ithiel, son of Jesaiah.
8	And after him Gebai, Sallai, nine hundred twenty and eight.
9	And Joel son of Zichri, reviewing over them: and Judah son of Senuah, second over the city.
10	Of the priests: Jedaiah son of Joiarib, Jachin.
11	Seraiah son of Hilkiah, son of Meshullam, son of Zadok, son of Meraioth, son of Ahitub, before the house of God.
12	And their brethren doing the work to the house, eight hundred twenty and two: and Adaiah son of Jeroham, son of Pelaliah, son of Amzi, son of Zechaliah, son of Pashur, son of Malchiah,
13	And his brethren chiefs to the fathers, two hundred forty and two: and Amashai son of Azareel, son of Ahazai, son of Meshillemoth, son of Immer,
14	And their brethren men of strength, a hundred twenty and eight: and he reviewing over them Zabdiel, son of the great ones:
15	And from the Levites: Shemaiah son of Hashub, son of Azrikam, son of Hashabiah, son of Bunni.
16	And Sabbethai and Jozabad over the exterior work to the house of God, from the heads of the Levites.
17	And Mattaniah son of Micha, son of Zabdi, son of Asaph, head of the beginning of Judah for prayer: and Bakbukiah the second from his brethren, and Abda, son of Shammua, son of Galal, son of Jeduthan.
18	All the Levites in the holy city, two hundred eighty and four.
19	And the gate-keepers, Akkub, Talmon, and their brethren watching in the gates, a hundred seventy and two.
20	And the rest of Israel, the priests, the Levites in all the cities of Judah, each in his inheritance.
21	And the Nethinims dwelling in Ophel: and Ziha and Gispa over the Nethinims.
22	And he reviewing the Levites in Jerusalem was Uzzi son of Bani, son of Hashabiah, son of Mattaniah, son of Micha. From the sons of Asaph, those singing before the work of the house of God.
23	For the king’s command concerning them a surety for those singing the word of a day in its day.
24	And Pethahiah son of Meshezaheel, from the sons of Zerah son of Judah, at the hand of the king for every word to the people.
25	And for the villages with their field, from the sons of Judah dwelt in Kirjath-Arba, and its buildings, and in Dibon and its buildings, and in Jekabzeel, and its villages,
26	And in Joshua, and in Moladah, and in the house of escape,
27	And in fox village, and in the the well of the oath, and in its villages,
28	And in Ziklag, and in Mekonah, and its buildings,
29	And in the pomegranate fountain, and in Zorah, and in the heights,
30	Zanoah, Adullam, and their villages, Lachish and its fields, Azekah and its buildings. And they will dwell from the well of the oath even to the valley of Hinnom.
31	And the sons of Benjamin from Gala, Michmash and Aija, and the house of God and its buildings,
32	Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah,
33	Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,
34	Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat,
35	Lod and Ono, valley of artificers.
36	And from the Levites divisions of Judah to Benjamin.