1	In that day was read in the book of Moses in the ears of the people; and it was found written in it that there shall not come in an Ammonite and a Moabite to the convocation of God, even to forever;
2	For they anticipated not the sons of Israel with bread and with water, and he will hire Balaam against him to curse him: and God will turn the curse to blessing.
3	And it will be in their hearing the law, and they will separate all the mixture from Israel.
4	And before this, Eliashib the priest being given over the cells of the house of our God, being near to Tobiah:
5	And he will make for him a great cell, and there before them were given the gifts, the frankincense and the vessels, and the tenth of the grain of the new wine and the new oil, (the command of the Levites, and those singing, and the gate-keepers,) and the oblations of the priests.
6	And in all this I was not in Jerusalem: for in the thirty and second year to Arthasatha king of Babel, I came to the king, and at the end of days I asked for myself from the king:
7	And I shall come to Jerusalem, and I shall understand upon the evil which Eliashib did for Tobiah to prepare for him a cell in the enclosures of the house of God.
8	And it will be greatly evil to me: and I shall cast forth all the vessels of the house of Tobiah without from the cell.
9	And saying, and they will purify the cells: and I shall turn back there the vessels of the house of God, with the gift and the frankincense.
10	And I shall know that the portions of the Levites were not given: and they will flee a man to his field, the Levites and those singing, doing the work.
11	And I shall contend with the prefects, and say, Wherefore was the house of God forsaken? And I shall gather them together, and cause them to stand upon their standing.
12	And all Judah brought the tenth of the grain and the new wine and the new oil to the treasuries.
13	And I made treasurers over the treasuries, Shelemiah the priest, and Zadok the scribe, and Pedaiah from the Levites: and upon their hand Hanan son of Zaccur, son of Mattaniah: for they were reckoned faithful: and upon them to divide out to their brethren.
14	Remember to me, O my God, concerning this, and thou wilt not wipe out my kindness which I did in the house of my God, and in its watches.
15	In those days I saw in Judah those treading the wine-presses in the Sabbath, and bringing in the sheaves, and loading upon the asses; and also wine, grapes, and figs, and every burden, and bringing into Jerusalem in the day of the Sabbath: and I shall testify in the day of their selling provision.
16	And the Tyrians sat in it, bringing in fish and every selling, and selling in the Sabbath to the sons of Judah, and in Jerusalem.
17	And I shall contend with the nobles of Judah, and say to them, What this evil word that ye are doing, and profaning the day of the Sabbath?
18	Did not your fathers thus, and our God will bring all this evil upon us, and upon this city? and ye are adding burning upon Israel to profane the Sabbath.
19	And it will be as the gates of Jerusalem were darkened before the Sabbath, and saying, and the doors shall be shut, and saying that they shall not open them till after the Sabbath: and from my young men I caused to stand at the gates; a burden shall not be brought in in the day of the Sabbath.
20	And the merchants and those selling every selling will lodge from without to Jerusalem once and twice.
21	And I shall testify against them, and say to them, Wherefore are ye lodging before the wall? if ye shall do it a second time I will stretch forth the hand against you From that time they came not upon the Sabbath.
22	And saying to the Levites that they shall be purifying, and coming, watching the gates to consecrate the day of the Sabbath. Also this remember for me, O my God, and spare upon me according to the multitude of thy mercy.
23	Also in those days I saw Jews who caused to dwell women, Ashdodites, Ammonites, Moabites:
24	And their sons half speaking the Ashdod dialect, and they not knowing to speak the Judean dialect, and according to the tongue of people and people.
25	And I shall contend with them, and I shall curse them and I shall strike of them men, and I shall make them bald, and cause them to swear by God, If ye shall give your daughters to their sons, and if ye shall lift up from their daughters to your sons and to yourselves.
26	Did not Solomon king of Israel sin concerning these? and in many nations was there not a king like him, and he was loved by his God, and God will give him king over all Israel: also him did women strangers cause to sin.
27	And to you shall we hear to do all this great evil to transgress against our God to cause strange women to dwell.
28	And from the sons of Joiada, son of Eliashib the great priest, was son-in-law to Sanballat the Horonite: and I shall cause him to flee from me.
29	Remember to them, O my God, for the pollutions of the priesthood, and the covenant of the priesthood, and of the Levites.
30	And I cleansed them from every stranger, and I shall set up watches to the priests and to the Levites, a man in his work.
31	And for the bringing near the woods in the times appointed, and for the first-fruits. Remember to me, O my God for good.