1	Then Job answered the LORD, and said,
2	I know that you can do every thing, and that no thought can be withheld from you.
3	Who is he that hides counsel without knowledge? therefore have I uttered that I understood not; things too wonderful for me, which I knew not.
4	Hear, I beseech you, and I will speak: I will demand of you, and declare you to me.
5	I have heard of you by the hearing of the ear: but now my eye sees you.
6	Why I abhor myself, and repent in dust and ashes.
7	And it was so, that after the LORD had spoken these words to Job, the LORD said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My wrath is kindled against you, and against your two friends: for you have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my servant Job has.
8	Therefore take to you now seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and my servant Job shall pray for you: for him will I accept: lest I deal with you after your folly, in that you have not spoken of me the thing which is right, like my servant Job.
9	So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went, and did according as the LORD commanded them: the LORD also accepted Job.
10	And the LORD turned the captivity of Job, when he prayed for his friends: also the LORD gave Job twice as much as he had before.
11	Then came there to him all his brothers, and all his sisters, and all they that had been of his acquaintance before, and did eat bread with him in his house: and they bemoaned him, and comforted him over all the evil that the LORD had brought on him: every man also gave him a piece of money, and every one an earring of gold.
12	So the LORD blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning: for he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she asses.
13	He had also seven sons and three daughters.
14	And he called the name of the first, Jemima; and the name of the second, Kezia; and the name of the third, Kerenhappuch.
15	And in all the land were no women found so fair as the daughters of Job: and their father gave them inheritance among their brothers.
16	After this lived Job an hundred and forty years, and saw his sons, and his sons’ sons, even four generations.
17	So Job died, being old and full of days.
Psalm 1:1	Blessed is the man that walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful.
Psalm 1:2	But his delight is in the law of the LORD; and in his law does he meditate day and night.
Psalm 1:3	And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that brings forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not wither; and whatever he does shall prosper.
Psalm 1:4	The ungodly are not so: but are like the chaff which the wind drives away.
Psalm 1:5	Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous.
Psalm 1:6	For the LORD knows the way of the righteous: but the way of the ungodly shall perish.
Psalm 2:1	Why do the heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing?
Psalm 2:2	The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the LORD, and against his anointed, saying,
Psalm 2:3	Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from us.
Psalm 2:4	He that sits in the heavens shall laugh: the LORD shall have them in derision.
Psalm 2:5	Then shall he speak to them in his wrath, and vex them in his sore displeasure.
Psalm 2:6	Yet have I set my king on my holy hill of Zion.
Psalm 2:7	I will declare the decree: the LORD has said to me, You are my Son; this day have I begotten you.
Psalm 2:8	Ask of me, and I shall give you the heathen for your inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for your possession.
Psalm 2:9	You shall break them with a rod of iron; you shall dash them in pieces like a potter’s vessel.
Psalm 2:10	Be wise now therefore, O you kings: be instructed, you judges of the earth.
Psalm 2:11	Serve the LORD with fear, and rejoice with trembling.
Psalm 2:12	Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish from the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all they that put their trust in him.
Psalm 3:1	Lord, how are they increased that trouble me! many are they that rise up against me.
Psalm 3:2	Many there be which say of my soul, There is no help for him in God. Selah.
Psalm 3:3	But you, O LORD, are a shield for me; my glory, and the lifter up of my head.
Psalm 3:4	I cried to the LORD with my voice, and he heard me out of his holy hill. Selah.
Psalm 3:5	I laid me down and slept; I awaked; for the LORD sustained me.
Psalm 3:6	I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people, that have set themselves against me round about.
Psalm 3:7	Arise, O LORD; save me, O my God: for you have smitten all my enemies on the cheek bone; you have broken the teeth of the ungodly.
Psalm 3:8	Salvation belongs to the LORD: your blessing is on your people. Selah.
Psalm 4:1	Hear me when I call, O God of my righteousness: you have enlarged me when I was in distress; have mercy on me, and hear my prayer.
Psalm 4:2	O you sons of men, how long will you turn my glory into shame? how long will you love vanity, and seek after leasing? Selah.
Psalm 4:3	But know that the LORD has set apart him that is godly for himself: the LORD will hear when I call to him.
Psalm 4:4	Stand in awe, and sin not: commune with your own heart on your bed, and be still. Selah.
Psalm 4:5	Offer the sacrifices of righteousness, and put your trust in the LORD.
Psalm 4:6	There be many that say, Who will show us any good? LORD, lift you up the light of your countenance on us.
Psalm 4:7	You have put gladness in my heart, more than in the time that their corn and their wine increased.
Psalm 4:8	I will both lay me down in peace, and sleep: for you, LORD, only make me dwell in safety.
Psalm 5:1	Give ear to my words, O LORD, consider my meditation.
Psalm 5:2	Listen to the voice of my cry, my King, and my God: for to you will I pray.
Psalm 5:3	My voice shall you hear in the morning, O LORD; in the morning will I direct my prayer to you, and will look up.
Psalm 5:4	For you are not a God that has pleasure in wickedness: neither shall evil dwell with you.
Psalm 5:5	The foolish shall not stand in your sight: you hate all workers of iniquity.
Psalm 5:6	You shall destroy them that speak leasing: the LORD will abhor the bloody and deceitful man.
Psalm 5:7	But as for me, I will come into your house in the multitude of your mercy: and in your fear will I worship toward your holy temple.
Psalm 5:8	Lead me, O LORD, in your righteousness because of my enemies; make your way straight before my face.
Psalm 5:9	For there is no faithfulness in their mouth; their inward part is very wickedness; their throat is an open sepulcher; they flatter with their tongue.
Psalm 5:10	Destroy you them, O God; let them fall by their own counsels; cast them out in the multitude of their transgressions; for they have rebelled against you.
Psalm 5:11	But let all those that put their trust in you rejoice: let them ever shout for joy, because you defend them: let them also that love your name be joyful in you.
Psalm 5:12	For you, LORD, will bless the righteous; with favor will you compass him as with a shield.
Psalm 6:1	O LORD, rebuke me not in your anger, neither chasten me in your hot displeasure.
Psalm 6:2	Have mercy on me, O LORD; for I am weak: O LORD, heal me; for my bones are vexed.
Psalm 6:3	My soul is also sore vexed: but you, O LORD, how long?
Psalm 6:4	Return, O LORD, deliver my soul: oh save me for your mercies’ sake.
Psalm 6:5	For in death there is no remembrance of you: in the grave who shall give you thanks?
Psalm 6:6	I am weary with my groaning; all the night make I my bed to swim; I water my couch with my tears.
Psalm 6:7	My eye is consumed because of grief; it waxes old because of all my enemies.
Psalm 6:8	Depart from me, all you workers of iniquity; for the LORD has heard the voice of my weeping.
Psalm 6:9	The LORD has heard my supplication; the LORD will receive my prayer.
Psalm 6:10	Let all my enemies be ashamed and sore vexed: let them return and be ashamed suddenly.
Psalm 7:1	O LORD my God, in you do I put my trust: save me from all them that persecute me, and deliver me:
Psalm 7:2	Lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending it in pieces, while there is none to deliver.
Psalm 7:3	O LORD my God, If I have done this; if there be iniquity in my hands;
Psalm 7:4	If I have rewarded evil to him that was at peace with me; (yes, I have delivered him that without cause is my enemy:)
Psalm 7:5	Let the enemy persecute my soul, and take it; yes, let him tread down my life on the earth, and lay my honor in the dust. Selah.
Psalm 7:6	Arise, O LORD, in your anger, lift up yourself because of the rage of my enemies: and awake for me to the judgment that you have commanded.
Psalm 7:7	So shall the congregation of the people compass you about: for their sakes therefore return you on high.
Psalm 7:8	The LORD shall judge the people: judge me, O LORD, according to my righteousness, and according to my integrity that is in me.
Psalm 7:9	Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end; but establish the just: for the righteous God tries the hearts and reins.
Psalm 7:10	My defense is of God, which saves the upright in heart.
Psalm 7:11	God judges the righteous, and God is angry with the wicked every day.
Psalm 7:12	If he turn not, he will whet his sword; he has bent his bow, and made it ready.
Psalm 7:13	He has also prepared for him the instruments of death; he ordains his arrows against the persecutors.
Psalm 7:14	Behold, he travails with iniquity, and has conceived mischief, and brought forth falsehood.
Psalm 7:15	He made a pit, and dig it, and is fallen into the ditch which he made.
Psalm 7:16	His mischief shall return on his own head, and his violent dealing shall come down on his own pate.
Psalm 7:17	I will praise the LORD according to his righteousness: and will sing praise to the name of the LORD most high.
Psalm 8:1	O LORD, our Lord, how excellent is your name in all the earth! who have set your glory above the heavens.
Psalm 8:2	Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings have you ordained strength because of your enemies, that you might still the enemy and the avenger.
Psalm 8:3	When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have ordained;
Psalm 8:4	What is man, that you are mindful of him? and the son of man, that you visit him?
Psalm 8:5	For you have made him a little lower than the angels, and have crowned him with glory and honor.
Psalm 8:6	You made him to have dominion over the works of your hands; you have put all things under his feet:
Psalm 8:7	All sheep and oxen, yes, and the beasts of the field;
Psalm 8:8	The fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whatever passes through the paths of the seas.
Psalm 8:9	O LORD our Lord, how excellent is your name in all the earth!
Psalm 9:1	I will praise you, O LORD, with my whole heart; I will show forth all your marvelous works.
Psalm 9:2	I will be glad and rejoice in you: I will sing praise to your name, O you most High.
Psalm 9:3	When my enemies are turned back, they shall fall and perish at your presence.
Psalm 9:4	For you have maintained my right and my cause; you sat in the throne judging right.
Psalm 9:5	You have rebuked the heathen, you have destroyed the wicked, you have put out their name for ever and ever.
Psalm 9:6	O you enemy, destructions are come to a perpetual end: and you have destroyed cities; their memorial is perished with them.
Psalm 9:7	But the LORD shall endure for ever: he has prepared his throne for judgment.
Psalm 9:8	And he shall judge the world in righteousness, he shall minister judgment to the people in uprightness.
Psalm 9:9	The LORD also will be a refuge for the oppressed, a refuge in times of trouble.
Psalm 9:10	And they that know your name will put their trust in you: for you, LORD, have not forsaken them that seek you.
Psalm 9:11	Sing praises to the LORD, which dwells in Zion: declare among the people his doings.
Psalm 9:12	When he makes inquisition for blood, he remembers them: he forgets not the cry of the humble.
Psalm 9:13	Have mercy on me, O LORD; consider my trouble which I suffer of them that hate me, you that lift me up from the gates of death:
Psalm 9:14	That I may show forth all your praise in the gates of the daughter of Zion: I will rejoice in your salvation.
Psalm 9:15	The heathen are sunk down in the pit that they made: in the net which they hid is their own foot taken.
Psalm 9:16	The LORD is known by the judgment which he executes: the wicked is snared in the work of his own hands. Higgaion. Selah.
Psalm 9:17	The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that forget God.
Psalm 9:18	For the needy shall not always be forgotten: the expectation of the poor shall not perish for ever.
Psalm 9:19	Arise, O LORD; let not man prevail: let the heathen be judged in your sight.
Psalm 9:20	Put them in fear, O LORD: that the nations may know themselves to be but men. Selah.
Psalm 10:1	Why stand you afar off, O LORD? why hide you yourself in times of trouble?
Psalm 10:2	The wicked in his pride does persecute the poor: let them be taken in the devices that they have imagined.
Psalm 10:3	For the wicked boasts of his heart’s desire, and blesses the covetous, whom the LORD abhors.
Psalm 10:4	The wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek after God: God is not in all his thoughts.
Psalm 10:5	His ways are always grievous; your judgments are far above out of his sight: as for all his enemies, he puffs at them.
Psalm 10:6	He has said in his heart, I shall not be moved: for I shall never be in adversity.
Psalm 10:7	His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and fraud: under his tongue is mischief and vanity.
Psalm 10:8	He sits in the lurking places of the villages: in the secret places does he murder the innocent: his eyes are privately set against the poor.
Psalm 10:9	He lies in wait secretly as a lion in his den: he lies in wait to catch the poor: he does catch the poor, when he draws him into his net.
Psalm 10:10	He crouches, and humbles himself, that the poor may fall by his strong ones.
Psalm 10:11	He has said in his heart, God has forgotten: he hides his face; he will never see it.
Psalm 10:12	Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up your hand: forget not the humble.
Psalm 10:13	Why does the wicked scorn God? he has said in his heart, You will not require it.
Psalm 10:14	You have seen it; for you behold mischief and spite, to requite it with your hand: the poor commits himself to you; you are the helper of the fatherless.
Psalm 10:15	Break you the arm of the wicked and the evil man: seek out his wickedness till you find none.
Psalm 10:16	The LORD is King for ever and ever: the heathen are perished out of his land.
Psalm 10:17	LORD, you have heard the desire of the humble: you will prepare their heart, you will cause your ear to hear:
Psalm 10:18	To judge the fatherless and the oppressed, that the man of the earth may no more oppress.
Psalm 11:1	In the LORD put I my trust: how say you to my soul, Flee as a bird to your mountain?
Psalm 11:2	For, see, the wicked bend their bow, they make ready their arrow on the string, that they may privately shoot at the upright in heart.
Psalm 11:3	If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do?
Psalm 11:4	The LORD is in his holy temple, the LORD’s throne is in heaven: his eyes behold, his eyelids try, the children of men.
Psalm 11:5	The LORD tries the righteous: but the wicked and him that loves violence his soul hates.
Psalm 11:6	On the wicked he shall rain snares, fire and brimstone, and an horrible tempest: this shall be the portion of their cup.
Psalm 11:7	For the righteous LORD loves righteousness; his countenance does behold the upright.
Psalm 12:1	Help, LORD; for the godly man ceases; for the faithful fail from among the children of men.
Psalm 12:2	They speak vanity every one with his neighbor: with flattering lips and with a double heart do they speak.
Psalm 12:3	The LORD shall cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that speaks proud things:
Psalm 12:4	Who have said, With our tongue will we prevail; our lips are our own: who is lord over us?
Psalm 12:5	For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now will I arise, said the LORD; I will set him in safety from him that puffs at him.
Psalm 12:6	The words of the LORD are pure words: as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times.
Psalm 12:7	You shall keep them, O LORD, you shall preserve them from this generation for ever.
Psalm 12:8	The wicked walk on every side, when the vilest men are exalted.
Psalm 13:1	How long will you forget me, O LORD? for ever? how long will you hide your face from me?
Psalm 13:2	How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily? how long shall my enemy be exalted over me?
Psalm 13:3	Consider and hear me, O LORD my God: lighten my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death;
Psalm 13:4	Lest my enemy say, I have prevailed against him; and those that trouble me rejoice when I am moved.
Psalm 13:5	But I have trusted in your mercy; my heart shall rejoice in your salvation.
Psalm 13:6	I will sing to the LORD, because he has dealt bountifully with me.
Psalm 14:1	The fool has said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt, they have done abominable works, there is none that does good.
Psalm 14:2	The LORD looked down from heaven on the children of men, to see if there were any that did understand, and seek God.
Psalm 14:3	They are all gone aside, they are all together become filthy: there is none that does good, no, not one.
Psalm 14:4	Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my people as they eat bread, and call not on the LORD.
Psalm 14:5	There were they in great fear: for God is in the generation of the righteous.
Psalm 14:6	You have shamed the counsel of the poor, because the LORD is his refuge.
Psalm 14:7	Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! when the LORD brings back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad.
Psalm 15:1	Lord, who shall abide in your tabernacle? who shall dwell in your holy hill?
Psalm 15:2	He that walks uprightly, and works righteousness, and speaks the truth in his heart.
Psalm 15:3	He that backbites not with his tongue, nor does evil to his neighbor, nor takes up a reproach against his neighbor.
Psalm 15:4	In whose eyes a vile person is contemned; but he honors them that fear the LORD. He that swears to his own hurt, and changes not.
Psalm 15:5	He that puts not out his money to usury, nor takes reward against the innocent. He that does these things shall never be moved.
Psalm 16:1	Preserve me, O God: for in you do I put my trust.
Psalm 16:2	O my soul, you have said to the LORD, You are my Lord: my goodness extends not to you;
Psalm 16:3	But to the saints that are in the earth, and to the excellent, in whom is all my delight.
Psalm 16:4	Their sorrows shall be multiplied that hasten after another god: their drink offerings of blood will I not offer, nor take up their names into my lips.
Psalm 16:5	The LORD is the portion of my inheritance and of my cup: you maintain my lot.
Psalm 16:6	The lines are fallen to me in pleasant places; yes, I have a goodly heritage.
Psalm 16:7	I will bless the LORD, who has given me counsel: my reins also instruct me in the night seasons.
Psalm 16:8	I have set the LORD always before me: because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved.
Psalm 16:9	Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoices: my flesh also shall rest in hope.
Psalm 16:10	For you will not leave my soul in hell; neither will you suffer your Holy One to see corruption.
Psalm 16:11	You will show me the path of life: in your presence is fullness of joy; at your right hand there are pleasures for ever more.
Psalm 17:1	Hear the right, O LORD, attend to my cry, give ear to my prayer, that goes not out of feigned lips.
Psalm 17:2	Let my sentence come forth from your presence; let your eyes behold the things that are equal.
Psalm 17:3	You have proved my heart; you have visited me in the night; you have tried me, and shall find nothing; I am purposed that my mouth shall not transgress.
Psalm 17:4	Concerning the works of men, by the word of your lips I have kept me from the paths of the destroyer.
Psalm 17:5	Hold up my goings in your paths, that my footsteps slip not.
Psalm 17:6	I have called on you, for you will hear me, O God: incline your ear to me, and hear my speech.
Psalm 17:7	Show your marvelous loving kindness, O you that save by your right hand them which put their trust in you from those that rise up against them.
Psalm 17:8	Keep me as the apple of the eye, hide me under the shadow of your wings,
Psalm 17:9	From the wicked that oppress me, from my deadly enemies, who compass me about.
Psalm 17:10	They are enclosed in their own fat: with their mouth they speak proudly.
Psalm 17:11	They have now compassed us in our steps: they have set their eyes bowing down to the earth;
Psalm 17:12	Like as a lion that is greedy of his prey, and as it were a young lion lurking in secret places.
Psalm 17:13	Arise, O LORD, disappoint him, cast him down: deliver my soul from the wicked, which is your sword:
Psalm 17:14	From men which are your hand, O LORD, from men of the world, which have their portion in this life, and whose belly you fill with your hid treasure: they are full of children, and leave the rest of their substance to their babes.
Psalm 17:15	As for me, I will behold your face in righteousness: I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with your likeness.
Psalm 18:1	I will love you, O LORD, my strength.
Psalm 18:2	The LORD is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; my God, my strength, in whom I will trust; my buckler, and the horn of my salvation, and my high tower.
Psalm 18:3	I will call on the LORD, who is worthy to be praised: so shall I be saved from my enemies.
Psalm 18:4	The sorrows of death compassed me, and the floods of ungodly men made me afraid.
Psalm 18:5	The sorrows of hell compassed me about: the snares of death prevented me.
Psalm 18:6	In my distress I called on the LORD, and cried to my God: he heard my voice out of his temple, and my cry came before him, even into his ears.
Psalm 18:7	Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations also of the hills moved and were shaken, because he was wroth.
Psalm 18:8	There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his mouth devoured: coals were kindled by it.
Psalm 18:9	He bowed the heavens also, and came down: and darkness was under his feet.
Psalm 18:10	And he rode on a cherub, and did fly: yes, he did fly on the wings of the wind.
Psalm 18:11	He made darkness his secret place; his pavilion round about him were dark waters and thick clouds of the skies.
Psalm 18:12	At the brightness that was before him his thick clouds passed, hail stones and coals of fire.
Psalm 18:13	The LORD also thundered in the heavens, and the Highest gave his voice; hail stones and coals of fire.
Psalm 18:14	Yes, he sent out his arrows, and scattered them; and he shot out lightning, and discomfited them.
Psalm 18:15	Then the channels of waters were seen, and the foundations of the world were discovered at your rebuke, O LORD, at the blast of the breath of your nostrils.
Psalm 18:16	He sent from above, he took me, he drew me out of many waters.
Psalm 18:17	He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them which hated me: for they were too strong for me.
Psalm 18:18	They prevented me in the day of my calamity: but the LORD was my stay.
Psalm 18:19	He brought me forth also into a large place; he delivered me, because he delighted in me.
Psalm 18:20	The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands has he recompensed me.
Psalm 18:21	For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly departed from my God.
Psalm 18:22	For all his judgments were before me, and I did not put away his statutes from me.
Psalm 18:23	I was also upright before him, and I kept myself from my iniquity.
Psalm 18:24	Therefore has the LORD recompensed me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight.
Psalm 18:25	With the merciful you will show yourself merciful; with an upright man you will show yourself upright;
Psalm 18:26	With the pure you will show yourself pure; and with the fraudulent you will show yourself devious.
Psalm 18:27	For you will save the afflicted people; but will bring down high looks.
Psalm 18:28	For you will light my candle: the LORD my God will enlighten my darkness.
Psalm 18:29	For by you I have run through a troop; and by my God have I leaped over a wall.
Psalm 18:30	As for God, his way is perfect: the word of the LORD is tried: he is a buckler to all those that trust in him.
Psalm 18:31	For who is God save the LORD? or who is a rock save our God?
Psalm 18:32	It is God that girds me with strength, and makes my way perfect.
Psalm 18:33	He makes my feet like hinds’ feet, and sets me on my high places.
Psalm 18:34	He teaches my hands to war, so that a bow of steel is broken by my arms.
Psalm 18:35	You have also given me the shield of your salvation: and your right hand has held me up, and your gentleness has made me great.
Psalm 18:36	You have enlarged my steps under me, that my feet did not slip.
Psalm 18:37	I have pursued my enemies, and overtaken them: neither did I turn again till they were consumed.
Psalm 18:38	I have wounded them that they were not able to rise: they are fallen under my feet.
Psalm 18:39	For you have girded me with strength to the battle: you have subdued under me those that rose up against me.
Psalm 18:40	You have also given me the necks of my enemies; that I might destroy them that hate me.
Psalm 18:41	They cried, but there was none to save them: even to the LORD, but he answered them not.
Psalm 18:42	Then did I beat them small as the dust before the wind: I did cast them out as the dirt in the streets.
Psalm 18:43	You have delivered me from the strivings of the people; and you have made me the head of the heathen: a people whom I have not known shall serve me.
Psalm 18:44	As soon as they hear of me, they shall obey me: the strangers shall submit themselves to me.
Psalm 18:45	The strangers shall fade away, and be afraid out of their close places.
Psalm 18:46	The LORD lives; and blessed be my rock; and let the God of my salvation be exalted.
Psalm 18:47	It is God that avenges me, and subdues the people under me.
Psalm 18:48	He delivers me from my enemies: yes, you lift me up above those that rise up against me: you have delivered me from the violent man.
Psalm 18:49	Therefore will I give thanks to you, O LORD, among the heathen, and sing praises to your name.
Psalm 18:50	Great deliverance gives he to his king; and shows mercy to his anointed, to David, and to his seed for ever more.
Psalm 19:1	The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament shows his handiwork.
Psalm 19:2	Day to day utters speech, and night to night shows knowledge.
Psalm 19:3	There is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard.
Psalm 19:4	Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them has he set a tabernacle for the sun,
Psalm 19:5	Which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, and rejoices as a strong man to run a race.
Psalm 19:6	His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and his circuit to the ends of it: and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof.
Psalm 19:7	The law of the LORD is perfect, converting the soul: the testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple.
Psalm 19:8	The statutes of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart: the commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes.
Psalm 19:9	The fear of the LORD is clean, enduring for ever: the judgments of the LORD are true and righteous altogether.
Psalm 19:10	More to be desired are they than gold, yes, than much fine gold: sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb.
Psalm 19:11	Moreover by them is your servant warned: and in keeping of them there is great reward.
Psalm 19:12	Who can understand his errors? cleanse you me from secret faults.
Psalm 19:13	Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion over me: then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent from the great transgression.
Psalm 19:14	Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be acceptable in your sight, O LORD, my strength, and my redeemer.
Psalm 20:1	The LORD hear you in the day of trouble; the name of the God of Jacob defend you;
Psalm 20:2	Send you help from the sanctuary, and strengthen you out of Zion;
Psalm 20:3	Remember all your offerings, and accept your burnt sacrifice; Selah.
Psalm 20:4	Grant you according to your own heart, and fulfill all your counsel.
Psalm 20:5	We will rejoice in your salvation, and in the name of our God we will set up our banners: the LORD fulfill all your petitions.
Psalm 20:6	Now know I that the LORD saves his anointed; he will hear him from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his right hand.
Psalm 20:7	Some trust in chariots, and some in horses: but we will remember the name of the LORD our God.
Psalm 20:8	They are brought down and fallen: but we are risen, and stand upright.
Psalm 20:9	Save, LORD: let the king hear us when we call.
Psalm 21:1	The king shall joy in your strength, O LORD; and in your salvation how greatly shall he rejoice!
Psalm 21:2	You have given him his heart’s desire, and have not withheld the request of his lips. Selah.
Psalm 21:3	For you prevent him with the blessings of goodness: you set a crown of pure gold on his head.
Psalm 21:4	He asked life of you, and you gave it him, even length of days for ever and ever.
Psalm 21:5	His glory is great in your salvation: honor and majesty have you laid on him.
Psalm 21:6	For you have made him most blessed for ever: you have made him exceeding glad with your countenance.
Psalm 21:7	For the king trusts in the LORD, and through the mercy of the most High he shall not be moved.
Psalm 21:8	Your hand shall find out all your enemies: your right hand shall find out those that hate you.
Psalm 21:9	You shall make them as a fiery oven in the time of your anger: the LORD shall swallow them up in his wrath, and the fire shall devour them.
Psalm 21:10	Their fruit shall you destroy from the earth, and their seed from among the children of men.
Psalm 21:11	For they intended evil against you: they imagined a mischievous device, which they are not able to perform.
Psalm 21:12	Therefore shall you make them turn their back, when you shall make ready your arrows on your strings against the face of them.
Psalm 21:13	Be you exalted, LORD, in your own strength: so will we sing and praise your power.
Psalm 22:1	My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? why are you so far from helping me, and from the words of my roaring?
Psalm 22:2	O my God, I cry in the day time, but you hear not; and in the night season, and am not silent.
Psalm 22:3	But you are holy, O you that inhabit the praises of Israel.
Psalm 22:4	Our fathers trusted in you: they trusted, and you did deliver them.
Psalm 22:5	They cried to you, and were delivered: they trusted in you, and were not confounded.
Psalm 22:6	But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of the people.
Psalm 22:7	All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying,
Psalm 22:8	He trusted on the LORD that he would deliver him: let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him.
Psalm 22:9	But you are he that took me out of the womb: you did make me hope when I was on my mother’s breasts.
Psalm 22:10	I was cast on you from the womb: you are my God from my mother’s belly.
Psalm 22:11	Be not far from me; for trouble is near; for there is none to help.
Psalm 22:12	Many bulls have compassed me: strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round.
Psalm 22:13	They gaped on me with their mouths, as a ravening and a roaring lion.
Psalm 22:14	I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint: my heart is like wax; it is melted in the middle of my bowels.
Psalm 22:15	My strength is dried up like a potsherd; and my tongue sticks to my jaws; and you have brought me into the dust of death.
Psalm 22:16	For dogs have compassed me: the assembly of the wicked have enclosed me: they pierced my hands and my feet.
Psalm 22:17	I may tell all my bones: they look and stare on me.
Psalm 22:18	They part my garments among them, and cast lots on my clothing.
Psalm 22:19	But be not you far from me, O LORD: O my strength, haste you to help me.
Psalm 22:20	Deliver my soul from the sword; my darling from the power of the dog.
Psalm 22:21	Save me from the lion’s mouth: for you have heard me from the horns of the unicorns.
Psalm 22:22	I will declare your name to my brothers: in the middle of the congregation will I praise you.
Psalm 22:23	You that fear the LORD, praise him; all you the seed of Jacob, glorify him; and fear him, all you the seed of Israel.
Psalm 22:24	For he has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; neither has he hid his face from him; but when he cried to him, he heard.
Psalm 22:25	My praise shall be of you in the great congregation: I will pay my vows before them that fear him.
Psalm 22:26	The meek shall eat and be satisfied: they shall praise the LORD that seek him: your heart shall live for ever.
Psalm 22:27	All the ends of the world shall remember and turn to the LORD: and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before you.
Psalm 22:28	For the kingdom is the LORD’s: and he is the governor among the nations.
Psalm 22:29	All they that be fat on earth shall eat and worship: all they that go down to the dust shall bow before him: and none can keep alive his own soul.
Psalm 22:30	A seed shall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord for a generation.
Psalm 22:31	They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness to a people that shall be born, that he has done this.
Psalm 23:1	The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want.
Psalm 23:2	He makes me to lie down in green pastures: he leads me beside the still waters.
Psalm 23:3	He restores my soul: he leads me in the paths of righteousness for his name’s sake.
Psalm 23:4	Yes, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for you are with me; your rod and your staff they comfort me.
Psalm 23:5	You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies: you anoint my head with oil; my cup runs over.
Psalm 23:6	Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life: and I will dwell in the house of the LORD for ever.
Psalm 24:1	The earth is the LORD’s, and the fullness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein.
Psalm 24:2	For he has founded it on the seas, and established it on the floods.
Psalm 24:3	Who shall ascend into the hill of the LORD? or who shall stand in his holy place?
Psalm 24:4	He that has clean hands, and a pure heart; who has not lifted up his soul to vanity, nor sworn deceitfully.
Psalm 24:5	He shall receive the blessing from the LORD, and righteousness from the God of his salvation.
Psalm 24:6	This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek your face, O Jacob. Selah.
Psalm 24:7	Lift up your heads, O you gates; and be you lift up, you everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in.
Psalm 24:8	Who is this King of glory? The LORD strong and mighty, the LORD mighty in battle.
Psalm 24:9	Lift up your heads, O you gates; even lift them up, you everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in.
Psalm 24:10	Who is this King of glory? The LORD of hosts, he is the King of glory. Selah.
Psalm 25:1	To you, O LORD, do I lift up my soul.
Psalm 25:2	O my God, I trust in you: let me not be ashamed, let not my enemies triumph over me.
Psalm 25:3	Yes, let none that wait on you be ashamed: let them be ashamed which transgress without cause.
Psalm 25:4	Show me your ways, O LORD; teach me your paths.
Psalm 25:5	Lead me in your truth, and teach me: for you are the God of my salvation; on you do I wait all the day.
Psalm 25:6	Remember, O LORD, your tender mercies and your loving kindnesses; for they have been ever of old.
Psalm 25:7	Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions: according to your mercy remember you me for your goodness’ sake, O LORD.
Psalm 25:8	Good and upright is the LORD: therefore will he teach sinners in the way.
Psalm 25:9	The meek will he guide in judgment: and the meek will he teach his way.
Psalm 25:10	All the paths of the LORD are mercy and truth to such as keep his covenant and his testimonies.
Psalm 25:11	For your name’s sake, O LORD, pardon my iniquity; for it is great.
Psalm 25:12	What man is he that fears the LORD? him shall he teach in the way that he shall choose.
Psalm 25:13	His soul shall dwell at ease; and his seed shall inherit the earth.
Psalm 25:14	The secret of the LORD is with them that fear him; and he will show them his covenant.
Psalm 25:15	My eyes are ever toward the LORD; for he shall pluck my feet out of the net.
Psalm 25:16	Turn you to me, and have mercy on me; for I am desolate and afflicted.
Psalm 25:17	The troubles of my heart are enlarged: O bring you me out of my distresses.
Psalm 25:18	Look on my affliction and my pain; and forgive all my sins.
Psalm 25:19	Consider my enemies; for they are many; and they hate me with cruel hatred.
Psalm 25:20	O keep my soul, and deliver me: let me not be ashamed; for I put my trust in you.
Psalm 25:21	Let integrity and uprightness preserve me; for I wait on you.
Psalm 25:22	Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his troubles.
Psalm 26:1	Judge me, O LORD; for I have walked in my integrity: I have trusted also in the LORD; therefore I shall not slide.
Psalm 26:2	Examine me, O LORD, and prove me; try my reins and my heart.
Psalm 26:3	For your loving kindness is before my eyes: and I have walked in your truth.
Psalm 26:4	I have not sat with vain persons, neither will I go in with dissemblers.
Psalm 26:5	I have hated the congregation of evil doers; and will not sit with the wicked.
Psalm 26:6	I will wash my hands in innocence: so will I compass your altar, O LORD:
Psalm 26:7	That I may publish with the voice of thanksgiving, and tell of all your wondrous works.
Psalm 26:8	LORD, I have loved the habitation of your house, and the place where your honor dwells.
Psalm 26:9	Gather not my soul with sinners, nor my life with bloody men:
Psalm 26:10	In whose hands is mischief, and their right hand is full of bribes.
Psalm 26:11	But as for me, I will walk in my integrity: redeem me, and be merciful to me.
Psalm 26:12	My foot stands in an even place: in the congregations will I bless the LORD.
Psalm 27:1	The LORD is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? the LORD is the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?
Psalm 27:2	When the wicked, even my enemies and my foes, came on me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell.
Psalm 27:3	Though an host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear: though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident.
Psalm 27:4	One thing have I desired of the LORD, that will I seek after; that I may dwell in the house of the LORD all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the LORD, and to inquire in his temple.
Psalm 27:5	For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion: in the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me; he shall set me up on a rock.
Psalm 27:6	And now shall my head be lifted up above my enemies round about me: therefore will I offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy; I will sing, yes, I will sing praises to the LORD.
Psalm 27:7	Hear, O LORD, when I cry with my voice: have mercy also on me, and answer me.
Psalm 27:8	When you said, Seek you my face; my heart said to you, Your face, LORD, will I seek.
Psalm 27:9	Hide not your face far from me; put not your servant away in anger: you have been my help; leave me not, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation.
Psalm 27:10	When my father and my mother forsake me, then the LORD will take me up.
Psalm 27:11	Teach me your way, O LORD, and lead me in a plain path, because of my enemies.
Psalm 27:12	Deliver me not over to the will of my enemies: for false witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out cruelty.
Psalm 27:13	I had fainted, unless I had believed to see the goodness of the LORD in the land of the living.
Psalm 27:14	Wait on the LORD: be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart: wait, I say, on the LORD.
Psalm 28:1	To you will I cry, O LORD my rock; be not silent to me: lest, if you be silent to me, I become like them that go down into the pit.
Psalm 28:2	Hear the voice of my supplications, when I cry to you, when I lift up my hands toward your holy oracle.
Psalm 28:3	Draw me not away with the wicked, and with the workers of iniquity, which speak peace to their neighbors, but mischief is in their hearts.
Psalm 28:4	Give them according to their deeds, and according to the wickedness of their endeavors: give them after the work of their hands; render to them their desert.
Psalm 28:5	Because they regard not the works of the LORD, nor the operation of his hands, he shall destroy them, and not build them up.
Psalm 28:6	Blessed be the LORD, because he has heard the voice of my supplications.
Psalm 28:7	The LORD is my strength and my shield; my heart trusted in him, and I am helped: therefore my heart greatly rejoices; and with my song will I praise him.
Psalm 28:8	The LORD is their strength, and he is the saving strength of his anointed.
Psalm 28:9	Save your people, and bless your inheritance: feed them also, and lift them up for ever.
Psalm 29:1	Give to the LORD, O you mighty, give to the LORD glory and strength.
Psalm 29:2	Give to the LORD the glory due to his name; worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness.
Psalm 29:3	The voice of the LORD is on the waters: the God of glory thunders: the LORD is on many waters.
Psalm 29:4	The voice of the LORD is powerful; the voice of the LORD is full of majesty.
Psalm 29:5	The voice of the LORD breaks the cedars; yes, the LORD breaks the cedars of Lebanon.
Psalm 29:6	He makes them also to skip like a calf; Lebanon and Sirion like a young unicorn.
Psalm 29:7	The voice of the LORD divides the flames of fire.
Psalm 29:8	The voice of the LORD shakes the wilderness; the LORD shakes the wilderness of Kadesh.
Psalm 29:9	The voice of the LORD makes the hinds to calve, and discovers the forests: and in his temple does every one speak of his glory.
Psalm 29:10	The LORD sits on the flood; yes, the LORD sits King for ever.
Psalm 29:11	The LORD will give strength to his people; the LORD will bless his people with peace.
Psalm 30:1	I will extol you, O LORD; for you have lifted me up, and have not made my foes to rejoice over me.
Psalm 30:2	O LORD my God, I cried to you, and you have healed me.
Psalm 30:3	O LORD, you have brought up my soul from the grave: you have kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit.
Psalm 30:4	Sing to the LORD, O you saints of his, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness.
Psalm 30:5	For his anger endures but a moment; in his favor is life: weeping may endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning.
Psalm 30:6	And in my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved.
Psalm 30:7	LORD, by your favor you have made my mountain to stand strong: you did hide your face, and I was troubled.
Psalm 30:8	I cried to you, O LORD; and to the LORD I made supplication.
Psalm 30:9	What profit is there in my blood, when I go down to the pit? Shall the dust praise you? shall it declare your truth?
Psalm 30:10	Hear, O LORD, and have mercy on me: LORD, be you my helper.
Psalm 30:11	You have turned for me my mourning into dancing: you have put off my sackcloth, and girded me with gladness;
Psalm 30:12	To the end that my glory may sing praise to you, and not be silent. O LORD my God, I will give thanks to you for ever.
Psalm 31:1	In you, O LORD, do I put my trust; let me never be ashamed: deliver me in your righteousness.
Psalm 31:2	Bow down your ear to me; deliver me speedily: be you my strong rock, for an house of defense to save me.
Psalm 31:3	For you are my rock and my fortress; therefore for your name’s sake lead me, and guide me.
Psalm 31:4	Pull me out of the net that they have laid privately for me: for you are my strength.
Psalm 31:5	Into your hand I commit my spirit: you have redeemed me, O LORD God of truth.
Psalm 31:6	I have hated them that regard lying vanities: but I trust in the LORD.
Psalm 31:7	I will be glad and rejoice in your mercy: for you have considered my trouble; you have known my soul in adversities;
Psalm 31:8	And have not shut me up into the hand of the enemy: you have set my feet in a large room.
Psalm 31:9	Have mercy on me, O LORD, for I am in trouble: my eye is consumed with grief, yes, my soul and my belly.
Psalm 31:10	For my life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing: my strength fails because of my iniquity, and my bones are consumed.
Psalm 31:11	I was a reproach among all my enemies, but especially among my neighbors, and a fear to my acquaintance: they that did see me without fled from me.
Psalm 31:12	I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken vessel.
Psalm 31:13	For I have heard the slander of many: fear was on every side: while they took counsel together against me, they devised to take away my life.
Psalm 31:14	But I trusted in you, O LORD: I said, You are my God.
Psalm 31:15	My times are in your hand: deliver me from the hand of my enemies, and from them that persecute me.
Psalm 31:16	Make your face to shine on your servant: save me for your mercies’ sake.
Psalm 31:17	Let me not be ashamed, O LORD; for I have called on you: let the wicked be ashamed, and let them be silent in the grave.
Psalm 31:18	Let the lying lips be put to silence; which speak grievous things proudly and contemptuously against the righteous.
Psalm 31:19	Oh how great is your goodness, which you have laid up for them that fear you; which you have worked for them that trust in you before the sons of men!
Psalm 31:20	You shall hide them in the secret of your presence from the pride of man: you shall keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues.
Psalm 31:21	Blessed be the LORD: for he has showed me his marvelous kindness in a strong city.
Psalm 31:22	For I said in my haste, I am cut off from before your eyes: nevertheless you heard the voice of my supplications when I cried to you.
Psalm 31:23	O love the LORD, all you his saints: for the LORD preserves the faithful, and plentifully rewards the proud doer.
Psalm 31:24	Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all you that hope in the LORD.
Psalm 32:1	Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered.
Psalm 32:2	Blessed is the man to whom the LORD imputes not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile.
Psalm 32:3	When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long.
Psalm 32:4	For day and night your hand was heavy on me: my moisture is turned into the drought of summer. Selah.
Psalm 32:5	I acknowledge my sin to you, and my iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the LORD; and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Selah.
Psalm 32:6	For this shall every one that is godly pray to you in a time when you may be found: surely in the floods of great waters they shall not come near to him.
Psalm 32:7	You are my hiding place; you shall preserve me from trouble; you shall compass me about with songs of deliverance. Selah.
Psalm 32:8	I will instruct you and teach you in the way which you shall go: I will guide you with my eye.
Psalm 32:9	Be you not as the horse, or as the mule, which have no understanding: whose mouth must be held in with bit and bridle, lest they come near to you.
Psalm 32:10	Many sorrows shall be to the wicked: but he that trusts in the LORD, mercy shall compass him about.
Psalm 32:11	Be glad in the LORD, and rejoice, you righteous: and shout for joy, all you that are upright in heart.
Psalm 33:1	Rejoice in the LORD, O you righteous: for praise is comely for the upright.
Psalm 33:2	Praise the LORD with harp: sing to him with the psaltery and an instrument of ten strings.
Psalm 33:3	Sing to him a new song; play skillfully with a loud noise.
Psalm 33:4	For the word of the LORD is right; and all his works are done in truth.
Psalm 33:5	He loves righteousness and judgment: the earth is full of the goodness of the LORD.
Psalm 33:6	By the word of the LORD were the heavens made; and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth.
Psalm 33:7	He gathers the waters of the sea together as an heap: he lays up the depth in storehouses.
Psalm 33:8	Let all the earth fear the LORD: let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him.
Psalm 33:9	For he spoke, and it was done; he commanded, and it stood fast.
Psalm 33:10	The LORD brings the counsel of the heathen to nothing: he makes the devices of the people of none effect.
Psalm 33:11	The counsel of the LORD stands for ever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations.
Psalm 33:12	Blessed is the nation whose God is the LORD; and the people whom he has chosen for his own inheritance.
Psalm 33:13	The LORD looks from heaven; he beholds all the sons of men.
Psalm 33:14	From the place of his habitation he looks on all the inhabitants of the earth.
Psalm 33:15	He fashions their hearts alike; he considers all their works.
Psalm 33:16	There is no king saved by the multitude of an host: a mighty man is not delivered by much strength.
Psalm 33:17	An horse is a vain thing for safety: neither shall he deliver any by his great strength.
Psalm 33:18	Behold, the eye of the LORD is on them that fear him, on them that hope in his mercy;
Psalm 33:19	To deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in famine.
Psalm 33:20	Our soul waits for the LORD: he is our help and our shield.
Psalm 33:21	For our heart shall rejoice in him, because we have trusted in his holy name.
Psalm 33:22	Let your mercy, O LORD, be on us, according as we hope in you.
Psalm 34:1	I will bless the LORD at all times: his praise shall continually be in my mouth.
Psalm 34:2	My soul shall make her boast in the LORD: the humble shall hear thereof, and be glad.
Psalm 34:3	O magnify the LORD with me, and let us exalt his name together.
Psalm 34:4	I sought the LORD, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my fears.
Psalm 34:5	They looked to him, and were lightened: and their faces were not ashamed.
Psalm 34:6	This poor man cried, and the LORD heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles.
Psalm 34:7	The angel of the LORD encamps round about them that fear him, and delivers them.
Psalm 34:8	O taste and see that the LORD is good: blessed is the man that trusts in him.
Psalm 34:9	O fear the LORD, you his saints: for there is no want to them that fear him.
Psalm 34:10	The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger: but they that seek the LORD shall not want any good thing.
Psalm 34:11	Come, you children, listen to me: I will teach you the fear of the LORD.
Psalm 34:12	What man is he that desires life, and loves many days, that he may see good?
Psalm 34:13	Keep your tongue from evil, and your lips from speaking guile.
Psalm 34:14	Depart from evil, and do good; seek peace, and pursue it.
Psalm 34:15	The eyes of the LORD are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their cry.
Psalm 34:16	The face of the LORD is against them that do evil, to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth.
Psalm 34:17	The righteous cry, and the LORD hears, and delivers them out of all their troubles.
Psalm 34:18	The LORD is near to them that are of a broken heart; and saves such as be of a contrite spirit.
Psalm 34:19	Many are the afflictions of the righteous: but the LORD delivers him out of them all.
Psalm 34:20	He keeps all his bones: not one of them is broken.
Psalm 34:21	Evil shall slay the wicked: and they that hate the righteous shall be desolate.
Psalm 34:22	The LORD redeems the soul of his servants: and none of them that trust in him shall be desolate.
Psalm 35:1	Plead my cause, O LORD, with them that strive with me: fight against them that fight against me.
Psalm 35:2	Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for my help.
Psalm 35:3	Draw out also the spear, and stop the way against them that persecute me: say to my soul, I am your salvation.
Psalm 35:4	Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my soul: let them be turned back and brought to confusion that devise my hurt.
Psalm 35:5	Let them be as chaff before the wind: and let the angel of the LORD chase them.
Psalm 35:6	Let their way be dark and slippery: and let the angel of the LORD persecute them.
Psalm 35:7	For without cause have they hid for me their net in a pit, which without cause they have dig for my soul.
Psalm 35:8	Let destruction come on him at unawares; and let his net that he has hid catch himself: into that very destruction let him fall.
Psalm 35:9	And my soul shall be joyful in the LORD: it shall rejoice in his salvation.
Psalm 35:10	All my bones shall say, LORD, who is like to you, which deliver the poor from him that is too strong for him, yes, the poor and the needy from him that spoils him?
Psalm 35:11	False witnesses did rise up; they laid to my charge things that I knew not.
Psalm 35:12	They rewarded me evil for good to the spoiling of my soul.
Psalm 35:13	But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth: I humbled my soul with fasting; and my prayer returned into my own bosom.
Psalm 35:14	I behaved myself as though he had been my friend or brother: I bowed down heavily, as one that mourns for his mother.
Psalm 35:15	But in my adversity they rejoiced, and gathered themselves together: yes, the attackers gathered themselves together against me, and I knew it not; they did tear me, and ceased not:
Psalm 35:16	With hypocritical mockers in feasts, they gnashed on me with their teeth.
Psalm 35:17	Lord, how long will you look on? rescue my soul from their destructions, my darling from the lions.
Psalm 35:18	I will give you thanks in the great congregation: I will praise you among much people.
Psalm 35:19	Let not them that are my enemies wrongfully rejoice over me: neither let them wink with the eye that hate me without a cause.
Psalm 35:20	For they speak not peace: but they devise deceitful matters against them that are quiet in the land.
Psalm 35:21	Yes, they opened their mouth wide against me, and said, Aha, aha, our eye has seen it.
Psalm 35:22	This you have seen, O LORD: keep not silence: O Lord, be not far from me.
Psalm 35:23	Stir up yourself, and awake to my judgment, even to my cause, my God and my Lord.
Psalm 35:24	Judge me, O LORD my God, according to your righteousness; and let them not rejoice over me.
Psalm 35:25	Let them not say in their hearts, Ah, so would we have it: let them not say, We have swallowed him up.
Psalm 35:26	Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion together that rejoice at my hurt: let them be clothed with shame and dishonor that magnify themselves against me.
Psalm 35:27	Let them shout for joy, and be glad, that favor my righteous cause: yes, let them say continually, Let the LORD be magnified, which has pleasure in the prosperity of his servant.
Psalm 35:28	And my tongue shall speak of your righteousness and of your praise all the day long.
Psalm 36:1	The transgression of the wicked said within my heart, that there is no fear of God before his eyes.
Psalm 36:2	For he flatters himself in his own eyes, until his iniquity be found to be hateful.
Psalm 36:3	The words of his mouth are iniquity and deceit: he has left off to be wise, and to do good.
Psalm 36:4	He devises mischief on his bed; he sets himself in a way that is not good; he abhors not evil.
Psalm 36:5	Your mercy, O LORD, is in the heavens; and your faithfulness reaches to the clouds.
Psalm 36:6	Your righteousness is like the great mountains; your judgments are a great deep: O LORD, you preserve man and beast.
Psalm 36:7	How excellent is your loving kindness, O God! therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of your wings.
Psalm 36:8	They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of your house; and you shall make them drink of the river of your pleasures.
Psalm 36:9	For with you is the fountain of life: in your light shall we see light.
Psalm 36:10	O continue your loving kindness to them that know you; and your righteousness to the upright in heart.
Psalm 36:11	Let not the foot of pride come against me, and let not the hand of the wicked remove me.
Psalm 36:12	There are the workers of iniquity fallen: they are cast down, and shall not be able to rise.
Psalm 37:1	Fret not yourself because of evildoers, neither be you envious against the workers of iniquity.
Psalm 37:2	For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb.
Psalm 37:3	Trust in the LORD, and do good; so shall you dwell in the land, and truly you shall be fed.
Psalm 37:4	Delight yourself also in the LORD: and he shall give you the desires of your heart.
Psalm 37:5	Commit your way to the LORD; trust also in him; and he shall bring it to pass.
Psalm 37:6	And he shall bring forth your righteousness as the light, and your judgment as the noonday.
Psalm 37:7	Rest in the LORD, and wait patiently for him: fret not yourself because of him who prospers in his way, because of the man who brings wicked devices to pass.
Psalm 37:8	Cease from anger, and forsake wrath: fret not yourself in any wise to do evil.
Psalm 37:9	For evildoers shall be cut off: but those that wait on the LORD, they shall inherit the earth.
Psalm 37:10	For yet a little while, and the wicked shall not be: yes, you shall diligently consider his place, and it shall not be.
Psalm 37:11	But the meek shall inherit the earth; and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace.
Psalm 37:12	The wicked plots against the just, and gnashes on him with his teeth.
Psalm 37:13	The LORD shall laugh at him: for he sees that his day is coming.
Psalm 37:14	The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, to cast down the poor and needy, and to slay such as be of upright conversation.
Psalm 37:15	Their sword shall enter into their own heart, and their bows shall be broken.
Psalm 37:16	A little that a righteous man has is better than the riches of many wicked.
Psalm 37:17	For the arms of the wicked shall be broken: but the LORD upholds the righteous.
Psalm 37:18	The LORD knows the days of the upright: and their inheritance shall be for ever.
Psalm 37:19	They shall not be ashamed in the evil time: and in the days of famine they shall be satisfied.
Psalm 37:20	But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the LORD shall be as the fat of lambs: they shall consume; into smoke shall they consume away.
Psalm 37:21	The wicked borrows, and pays not again: but the righteous shows mercy, and gives.
Psalm 37:22	For such as be blessed of him shall inherit the earth; and they that be cursed of him shall be cut off.
Psalm 37:23	The steps of a good man are ordered by the LORD: and he delights in his way.
Psalm 37:24	Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down: for the LORD upholds him with his hand.
Psalm 37:25	I have been young, and now am old; yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread.
Psalm 37:26	He is ever merciful, and lends; and his seed is blessed.
Psalm 37:27	Depart from evil, and do good; and dwell for ever more.
Psalm 37:28	For the LORD loves judgment, and forsakes not his saints; they are preserved for ever: but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off.
Psalm 37:29	The righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell therein for ever.
Psalm 37:30	The mouth of the righteous speaks wisdom, and his tongue talks of judgment.
Psalm 37:31	The law of his God is in his heart; none of his steps shall slide.
Psalm 37:32	The wicked watches the righteous, and seeks to slay him.
Psalm 37:33	The LORD will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he is judged.
Psalm 37:34	Wait on the LORD, and keep his way, and he shall exalt you to inherit the land: when the wicked are cut off, you shall see it.
Psalm 37:35	I have seen the wicked in great power, and spreading himself like a green bay tree.
Psalm 37:36	Yet he passed away, and, see, he was not: yes, I sought him, but he could not be found.
Psalm 37:37	Mark the perfect man, and behold the upright: for the end of that man is peace.
Psalm 37:38	But the transgressors shall be destroyed together: the end of the wicked shall be cut off.
Psalm 37:39	But the salvation of the righteous is of the LORD: he is their strength in the time of trouble.
Psalm 37:40	And the LORD shall help them, and deliver them: he shall deliver them from the wicked, and save them, because they trust in him.
Psalm 38:1	O lord, rebuke me not in your wrath: neither chasten me in your hot displeasure.
Psalm 38:2	For your arrows stick fast in me, and your hand presses me sore.
Psalm 38:3	There is no soundness in my flesh because of your anger; neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin.
Psalm 38:4	For my iniquities are gone over my head: as an heavy burden they are too heavy for me.
Psalm 38:5	My wounds stink and are corrupt because of my foolishness.
Psalm 38:6	I am troubled; I am bowed down greatly; I go mourning all the day long.
Psalm 38:7	For my loins are filled with a loathsome disease: and there is no soundness in my flesh.
Psalm 38:8	I am feeble and sore broken: I have roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart.
Psalm 38:9	Lord, all my desire is before you; and my groaning is not hid from you.
Psalm 38:10	My heart pants, my strength fails me: as for the light of my eyes, it also is gone from me.
Psalm 38:11	My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my sore; and my kinsmen stand afar off.
Psalm 38:12	They also that seek after my life lay snares for me: and they that seek my hurt speak mischievous things, and imagine deceits all the day long.
Psalm 38:13	But I, as a deaf man, heard not; and I was as a dumb man that opens not his mouth.
Psalm 38:14	Thus I was as a man that hears not, and in whose mouth are no reproofs.
Psalm 38:15	For in you, O LORD, do I hope: you will hear, O Lord my God.
Psalm 38:16	For I said, Hear me, lest otherwise they should rejoice over me: when my foot slips, they magnify themselves against me.
Psalm 38:17	For I am ready to halt, and my sorrow is continually before me.
Psalm 38:18	For I will declare my iniquity; I will be sorry for my sin.
Psalm 38:19	But my enemies are lively, and they are strong: and they that hate me wrongfully are multiplied.
Psalm 38:20	They also that render evil for good are my adversaries; because I follow the thing that good is.
Psalm 38:21	Forsake me not, O LORD: O my God, be not far from me.
Psalm 38:22	Make haste to help me, O Lord my salvation.
Psalm 39:1	I said, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my tongue: I will keep my mouth with a bridle, while the wicked is before me.
Psalm 39:2	I was dumb with silence, I held my peace, even from good; and my sorrow was stirred.
Psalm 39:3	My heart was hot within me, while I was musing the fire burned: then spoke I with my tongue,
Psalm 39:4	LORD, make me to know my end, and the measure of my days, what it is: that I may know how frail I am.
Psalm 39:5	Behold, you have made my days as an handbreadth; and my age is as nothing before you: truly every man at his best state is altogether vanity. Selah.
Psalm 39:6	Surely every man walks in a vain show: surely they are disquieted in vain: he heaps up riches, and knows not who shall gather them.
Psalm 39:7	And now, Lord, what wait I for? my hope is in you.
Psalm 39:8	Deliver me from all my transgressions: make me not the reproach of the foolish.
Psalm 39:9	I was dumb, I opened not my mouth; because you did it.
Psalm 39:10	Remove your stroke away from me: I am consumed by the blow of your hand.
Psalm 39:11	When you with rebukes do correct man for iniquity, you make his beauty to consume away like a moth: surely every man is vanity. Selah.
Psalm 39:12	Hear my prayer, O LORD, and give ear to my cry; hold not your peace at my tears: for I am a stranger with you, and a sojourner, as all my fathers were.
Psalm 39:13	O spare me, that I may recover strength, before I go hence, and be no more.
Psalm 40:1	I waited patiently for the LORD; and he inclined to me, and heard my cry.
Psalm 40:2	He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet on a rock, and established my goings.
Psalm 40:3	And he has put a new song in my mouth, even praise to our God: many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in the LORD.
Psalm 40:4	Blessed is that man that makes the LORD his trust, and respects not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies.
Psalm 40:5	Many, O LORD my God, are your wonderful works which you have done, and your thoughts which are to us-ward: they cannot be reckoned up in order to you: if I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered.
Psalm 40:6	Sacrifice and offering you did not desire; my ears have you opened: burnt offering and sin offering have you not required.
Psalm 40:7	Then said I, See, I come: in the volume of the book it is written of me,
Psalm 40:8	I delight to do your will, O my God: yes, your law is within my heart.
Psalm 40:9	I have preached righteousness in the great congregation: see, I have not refrained my lips, O LORD, you know.
Psalm 40:10	I have not hid your righteousness within my heart; I have declared your faithfulness and your salvation: I have not concealed your loving kindness and your truth from the great congregation.
Psalm 40:11	Withhold not you your tender mercies from me, O LORD: let your loving kindness and your truth continually preserve me.
Psalm 40:12	For innumerable evils have compassed me about: my iniquities have taken hold on me, so that I am not able to look up; they are more than the hairs of my head: therefore my heart fails me.
Psalm 40:13	Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me: O LORD, make haste to help me.
Psalm 40:14	Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it; let them be driven backward and put to shame that wish me evil.
Psalm 40:15	Let them be desolate for a reward of their shame that say to me, Aha, aha.
Psalm 40:16	Let all those that seek you rejoice and be glad in you: let such as love your salvation say continually, The LORD be magnified.
Psalm 40:17	But I am poor and needy; yet the Lord thinks on me: you are my help and my deliverer; make no tarrying, O my God.
Psalm 41:1	Blessed is he that considers the poor: the LORD will deliver him in time of trouble.
Psalm 41:2	The LORD will preserve him, and keep him alive; and he shall be blessed on the earth: and you will not deliver him to the will of his enemies.
Psalm 41:3	The LORD will strengthen him on the bed of languishing: you will make all his bed in his sickness.
Psalm 41:4	I said, LORD, be merciful to me: heal my soul; for I have sinned against you.
Psalm 41:5	My enemies speak evil of me, When shall he die, and his name perish?
Psalm 41:6	And if he come to see me, he speaks vanity: his heart gathers iniquity to itself; when he goes abroad, he tells it.
Psalm 41:7	All that hate me whisper together against me: against me do they devise my hurt.
Psalm 41:8	An evil disease, say they, sticks fast to him: and now that he lies he shall rise up no more.
Psalm 41:9	Yes, my own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, which did eat of my bread, has lifted up his heel against me.
Psalm 41:10	But you, O LORD, be merciful to me, and raise me up, that I may requite them.
Psalm 41:11	By this I know that you favor me, because my enemy does not triumph over me.
Psalm 41:12	And as for me, you uphold me in my integrity, and set me before your face for ever.
Psalm 41:13	Blessed be the LORD God of Israel from everlasting, and to everlasting. Amen, and Amen.
Psalm 42:1	As the hart pants after the water brooks, so pants my soul after you, O God.
Psalm 42:2	My soul thirsts for God, for the living God: when shall I come and appear before God?
Psalm 42:3	My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say to me, Where is your God?
Psalm 42:4	When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me: for I had gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God, with the voice of joy and praise, with a multitude that kept holy day.
Psalm 42:5	Why are you cast down, O my soul? and why are you disquieted in me? hope you in God: for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance.
Psalm 42:6	O my God, my soul is cast down within me: therefore will I remember you from the land of Jordan, and of the Hermonites, from the hill Mizar.
Psalm 42:7	Deep calls to deep at the noise of your waterspouts: all your waves and your billows are gone over me.
Psalm 42:8	Yet the LORD will command his loving kindness in the day time, and in the night his song shall be with me, and my prayer to the God of my life.
Psalm 42:9	I will say to God my rock, Why have you forgotten me? why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?
Psalm 42:10	As with a sword in my bones, my enemies reproach me; while they say daily to me, Where is your God?
Psalm 42:11	Why are you cast down, O my soul? and why are you disquieted within me? hope you in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance, and my God.
Psalm 43:1	Judge me, O God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation: O deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man.
Psalm 43:2	For you are the God of my strength: why do you cast me off? why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?
Psalm 43:3	O send out your light and your truth: let them lead me; let them bring me to your holy hill, and to your tabernacles.
Psalm 43:4	Then will I go to the altar of God, to God my exceeding joy: yes, on the harp will I praise you, O God my God.
Psalm 43:5	Why are you cast down, O my soul? and why are you disquieted within me? hope in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance, and my God.
Psalm 44:1	We have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us, what work you did in their days, in the times of old.
Psalm 44:2	How you did drive out the heathen with your hand, and planted them; how you did afflict the people, and cast them out.
Psalm 44:3	For they got not the land in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them: but your right hand, and your arm, and the light of your countenance, because you had a favor to them.
Psalm 44:4	You are my King, O God: command deliverances for Jacob.
Psalm 44:5	Through you will we push down our enemies: through your name will we tread them under that rise up against us.
Psalm 44:6	For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me.
Psalm 44:7	But you have saved us from our enemies, and have put them to shame that hated us.
Psalm 44:8	In God we boast all the day long, and praise your name for ever. Selah.
Psalm 44:9	But you have cast off, and put us to shame; and go not forth with our armies.
Psalm 44:10	You make us to turn back from the enemy: and they which hate us spoil for themselves.
Psalm 44:11	You have given us like sheep appointed for meat; and have scattered us among the heathen.
Psalm 44:12	You sell your people for nothing, and do not increase your wealth by their price.
Psalm 44:13	You make us a reproach to our neighbors, a scorn and a derision to them that are round about us.
Psalm 44:14	You make us a byword among the heathen, a shaking of the head among the people.
Psalm 44:15	My confusion is continually before me, and the shame of my face has covered me,
Psalm 44:16	For the voice of him that reproaches and blasphemes; by reason of the enemy and avenger.
Psalm 44:17	All this is come on us; yet have we not forgotten you, neither have we dealt falsely in your covenant.
Psalm 44:18	Our heart is not turned back, neither have our steps declined from your way;
Psalm 44:19	Though you have sore broken us in the place of dragons, and covered us with the shadow of death.
Psalm 44:20	If we have forgotten the name of our God, or stretched out our hands to a strange god;
Psalm 44:21	Shall not God search this out? for he knows the secrets of the heart.
Psalm 44:22	Yes, for your sake are we killed all the day long; we are counted as sheep for the slaughter.
Psalm 44:23	Awake, why sleep you, O Lord? arise, cast us not off for ever.
Psalm 44:24	Why hide you your face, and forget our affliction and our oppression?
Psalm 44:25	For our soul is bowed down to the dust: our belly sticks to the earth.
Psalm 44:26	Arise for our help, and redeem us for your mercies’ sake.
Psalm 45:1	My heart is gushing a good matter: I speak of the things which I have made touching the king: my tongue is the pen of a ready writer.
Psalm 45:2	You are fairer than the children of men: grace is poured into your lips: therefore God has blessed you for ever.
Psalm 45:3	Gird your sword on your thigh, O most mighty, with your glory and your majesty.
Psalm 45:4	And in your majesty ride prosperously because of truth and meekness and righteousness; and your right hand shall teach you terrible things.
Psalm 45:5	Your arrows are sharp in the heart of the king’s enemies; whereby the people fall under you.
Psalm 45:6	Your throne, O God, is for ever and ever: the scepter of your kingdom is a right scepter.
Psalm 45:7	You love righteousness, and hate wickedness: therefore God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness above your fellows.
Psalm 45:8	All your garments smell of myrrh, and aloes, and cassia, out of the ivory palaces, whereby they have made you glad.
Psalm 45:9	Kings’ daughters were among your honorable women: on your right hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir.
Psalm 45:10	Listen, O daughter, and consider, and incline your ear; forget also your own people, and your father’s house;
Psalm 45:11	So shall the king greatly desire your beauty: for he is your Lord; and worship you him.
Psalm 45:12	And the daughter of Tyre shall be there with a gift; even the rich among the people shall entreat your favor.
Psalm 45:13	The king’s daughter is all glorious within: her clothing is of worked gold.
Psalm 45:14	She shall be brought to the king in raiment of needlework: the virgins her companions that follow her shall be brought to you.
Psalm 45:15	With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought: they shall enter into the king’s palace.
Psalm 45:16	Instead of your fathers shall be your children, whom you may make princes in all the earth.
Psalm 45:17	I will make your name to be remembered in all generations: therefore shall the people praise you for ever and ever.
Psalm 46:1	God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.
Psalm 46:2	Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the middle of the sea;
Psalm 46:3	Though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof. Selah.
Psalm 46:4	There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the most High.
Psalm 46:5	God is in the middle of her; she shall not be moved: God shall help her, and that right early.
Psalm 46:6	The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved: he uttered his voice, the earth melted.
Psalm 46:7	The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah.
Psalm 46:8	Come, behold the works of the LORD, what desolations he has made in the earth.
Psalm 46:9	He makes wars to cease to the end of the earth; he breaks the bow, and cuts the spear in sunder; he burns the chariot in the fire.
Psalm 46:10	Be still, and know that I am God: I will be exalted among the heathen, I will be exalted in the earth.
Psalm 46:11	The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah.
Psalm 47:1	O clap your hands, all you people; shout to God with the voice of triumph.
Psalm 47:2	For the LORD most high is terrible; he is a great King over all the earth.
Psalm 47:3	He shall subdue the people under us, and the nations under our feet.
Psalm 47:4	He shall choose our inheritance for us, the excellency of Jacob whom he loved. Selah.
Psalm 47:5	God is gone up with a shout, the LORD with the sound of a trumpet.
Psalm 47:6	Sing praises to God, sing praises: sing praises to our King, sing praises.
Psalm 47:7	For God is the King of all the earth: sing you praises with understanding.
Psalm 47:8	God reigns over the heathen: God sits on the throne of his holiness.
Psalm 47:9	The princes of the people are gathered together, even the people of the God of Abraham: for the shields of the earth belong to God: he is greatly exalted.
Psalm 48:1	Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised in the city of our God, in the mountain of his holiness.
Psalm 48:2	Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth, is mount Zion, on the sides of the north, the city of the great King.
Psalm 48:3	God is known in her palaces for a refuge.
Psalm 48:4	For, see, the kings were assembled, they passed by together.
Psalm 48:5	They saw it, and so they marveled; they were troubled, and hurried away.
Psalm 48:6	Fear took hold on them there, and pain, as of a woman in travail.
Psalm 48:7	You break the ships of Tarshish with an east wind.
Psalm 48:8	As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the LORD of hosts, in the city of our God: God will establish it for ever. Selah.
Psalm 48:9	We have thought of your loving kindness, O God, in the middle of your temple.
Psalm 48:10	According to your name, O God, so is your praise to the ends of the earth: your right hand is full of righteousness.
Psalm 48:11	Let mount Zion rejoice, let the daughters of Judah be glad, because of your judgments.
Psalm 48:12	Walk about Zion, and go round about her: tell the towers thereof.
Psalm 48:13	Mark you well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that you may tell it to the generation following.
Psalm 48:14	For this God is our God for ever and ever: he will be our guide even to death.
Psalm 49:1	Hear this, all you people; give ear, all you inhabitants of the world:
Psalm 49:2	Both low and high, rich and poor, together.
Psalm 49:3	My mouth shall speak of wisdom; and the meditation of my heart shall be of understanding.
Psalm 49:4	I will incline my ear to a parable: I will open my dark saying on the harp.
Psalm 49:5	Why should I fear in the days of evil, when the iniquity of my heels shall compass me about?
Psalm 49:6	They that trust in their wealth, and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches;
Psalm 49:7	None of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him:
Psalm 49:8	(For the redemption of their soul is precious, and it ceases for ever:)
Psalm 49:9	That he should still live for ever, and not see corruption.
Psalm 49:10	For he sees that wise men die, likewise the fool and the brutish person perish, and leave their wealth to others.
Psalm 49:11	Their inward thought is, that their houses shall continue for ever, and their dwelling places to all generations; they call their lands after their own names.
Psalm 49:12	Nevertheless man being in honor stays not: he is like the beasts that perish.
Psalm 49:13	This their way is their folly: yet their posterity approve their sayings. Selah.
Psalm 49:14	Like sheep they are laid in the grave; death shall feed on them; and the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; and their beauty shall consume in the grave from their dwelling.
Psalm 49:15	But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave: for he shall receive me. Selah.
Psalm 49:16	Be not you afraid when one is made rich, when the glory of his house is increased;
Psalm 49:17	For when he dies he shall carry nothing away: his glory shall not descend after him.
Psalm 49:18	Though while he lived he blessed his soul: and men will praise you, when you do well to yourself.
Psalm 49:19	He shall go to the generation of his fathers; they shall never see light.
Psalm 49:20	Man that is in honor, and understands not, is like the beasts that perish.
Psalm 50:1	The mighty God, even the LORD, has spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun to the going down thereof.
Psalm 50:2	Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God has shined.
Psalm 50:3	Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him.
Psalm 50:4	He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that he may judge his people.
Psalm 50:5	Gather my saints together to me; those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice.
Psalm 50:6	And the heavens shall declare his righteousness: for God is judge himself. Selah.
Psalm 50:7	Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify against you: I am God, even your God.
Psalm 50:8	I will not reprove you for your sacrifices or your burnt offerings, to have been continually before me.
Psalm 50:9	I will take no bullock out of your house, nor he goats out of your folds.
Psalm 50:10	For every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle on a thousand hills.
Psalm 50:11	I know all the fowls of the mountains: and the wild beasts of the field are mine.
Psalm 50:12	If I were hungry, I would not tell you: for the world is mine, and the fullness thereof.
Psalm 50:13	Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats?
Psalm 50:14	Offer to God thanksgiving; and pay your vows to the most High:
Psalm 50:15	And call on me in the day of trouble: I will deliver you, and you shall glorify me.
Psalm 50:16	But to the wicked God said, What have you to do to declare my statutes, or that you should take my covenant in your mouth?
Psalm 50:17	Seeing you hate instruction, and casts my words behind you.
Psalm 50:18	When you saw a thief, then you consented with him, and have been partaker with adulterers.
Psalm 50:19	You give your mouth to evil, and your tongue frames deceit.
Psalm 50:20	You sit and speak against your brother; you slander your own mother’s son.
Psalm 50:21	These things have you done, and I kept silence; you thought that I was altogether such an one as yourself: but I will reprove you, and set them in order before your eyes.
Psalm 50:22	Now consider this, you that forget God, lest I tear you in pieces, and there be none to deliver.
Psalm 50:23	Whoever offers praise glorifies me: and to him that orders his conversation aright will I show the salvation of God.
Psalm 51:1	Have mercy on me, O God, according to your loving kindness: according to the multitude of your tender mercies blot out my transgressions.
Psalm 51:2	Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin.
Psalm 51:3	For I acknowledge my transgressions: and my sin is ever before me.
Psalm 51:4	Against you, you only, have I sinned, and done this evil in your sight: that you might be justified when you speak, and be clear when you judge.
Psalm 51:5	Behold, I was shaped in iniquity; and in sin did my mother conceive me.
Psalm 51:6	Behold, you desire truth in the inward parts: and in the hidden part you shall make me to know wisdom.
Psalm 51:7	Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.
Psalm 51:8	Make me to hear joy and gladness; that the bones which you have broken may rejoice.
Psalm 51:9	Hide your face from my sins, and blot out all my iniquities.
Psalm 51:10	Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me.
Psalm 51:11	Cast me not away from your presence; and take not your holy spirit from me.
Psalm 51:12	Restore to me the joy of your salvation; and uphold me with your free spirit.
Psalm 51:13	Then will I teach transgressors your ways; and sinners shall be converted to you.
Psalm 51:14	Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, you God of my salvation: and my tongue shall sing aloud of your righteousness.
Psalm 51:15	O Lord, open you my lips; and my mouth shall show forth your praise.
Psalm 51:16	For you desire not sacrifice; else would I give it: you delight not in burnt offering.
Psalm 51:17	The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit: a broken and a contrite heart, O God, you will not despise.
Psalm 51:18	Do good in your good pleasure to Zion: build you the walls of Jerusalem.
Psalm 51:19	Then shall you be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness, with burnt offering and whole burnt offering: then shall they offer bullocks on your altar.
Psalm 52:1	Why boast you yourself in mischief, O mighty man? the goodness of God endures continually.
Psalm 52:2	The tongue devises mischiefs; like a sharp razor, working deceitfully.
Psalm 52:3	You love evil more than good; and lying rather than to speak righteousness. Selah.
Psalm 52:4	You love all devouring words, O you deceitful tongue.
Psalm 52:5	God shall likewise destroy you for ever, he shall take you away, and pluck you out of your dwelling place, and root you out of the land of the living. Selah.
Psalm 52:6	The righteous also shall see, and fear, and shall laugh at him:
Psalm 52:7	See, this is the man that made not God his strength; but trusted in the abundance of his riches, and strengthened himself in his wickedness.
Psalm 52:8	But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God: I trust in the mercy of God for ever and ever.
Psalm 52:9	I will praise you for ever, because you have done it: and I will wait on your name; for it is good before your saints.
Psalm 53:1	The fool has said in his heart, There is no God. Corrupt are they, and have done abominable iniquity: there is none that does good.
Psalm 53:2	God looked down from heaven on the children of men, to see if there were any that did understand, that did seek God.
Psalm 53:3	Every one of them is gone back: they are altogether become filthy; there is none that does good, no, not one.
Psalm 53:4	Have the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my people as they eat bread: they have not called on God.
Psalm 53:5	There were they in great fear, where no fear was: for God has scattered the bones of him that encamps against you: you have put them to shame, because God has despised them.
Psalm 53:6	Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! When God brings back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad.
Psalm 54:1	Save me, O God, by your name, and judge me by your strength.
Psalm 54:2	Hear my prayer, O God; give ear to the words of my mouth.
Psalm 54:3	For strangers are risen up against me, and oppressors seek after my soul: they have not set God before them. Selah.
Psalm 54:4	Behold, God is my helper: the Lord is with them that uphold my soul.
Psalm 54:5	He shall reward evil to my enemies: cut them off in your truth.
Psalm 54:6	I will freely sacrifice to you: I will praise your name, O LORD; for it is good.
Psalm 54:7	For he has delivered me out of all trouble: and my eye has seen his desire on my enemies.
Psalm 55:1	Give ear to my prayer, O God; and hide not yourself from my supplication.
Psalm 55:2	Attend to me, and hear me: I mourn in my complaint, and make a noise;
Psalm 55:3	Because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked: for they cast iniquity on me, and in wrath they hate me.
Psalm 55:4	My heart is sore pained within me: and the terrors of death are fallen on me.
Psalm 55:5	Fearfulness and trembling are come on me, and horror has overwhelmed me.
Psalm 55:6	And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove! for then would I fly away, and be at rest.
Psalm 55:7	See, then would I wander far off, and remain in the wilderness. Selah.
Psalm 55:8	I would hasten my escape from the windy storm and tempest.
Psalm 55:9	Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongues: for I have seen violence and strife in the city.
Psalm 55:10	Day and night they go about it on the walls thereof: mischief also and sorrow are in the middle of it.
Psalm 55:11	Wickedness is in the middle thereof: deceit and guile depart not from her streets.
Psalm 55:12	For it was not an enemy that reproached me; then I could have borne it: neither was it he that hated me that did magnify himself against me; then I would have hid myself from him:
Psalm 55:13	But it was you, a man my equal, my guide, and my acquaintance.
Psalm 55:14	We took sweet counsel together, and walked to the house of God in company.
Psalm 55:15	Let death seize on them, and let them go down quick into hell: for wickedness is in their dwellings, and among them.
Psalm 55:16	As for me, I will call on God; and the LORD shall save me.
Psalm 55:17	Evening, and morning, and at noon, will I pray, and cry aloud: and he shall hear my voice.
Psalm 55:18	He has delivered my soul in peace from the battle that was against me: for there were many with me.
Psalm 55:19	God shall hear, and afflict them, even he that stays of old. Selah. Because they have no changes, therefore they fear not God.
Psalm 55:20	He has put forth his hands against such as be at peace with him: he has broken his covenant.
Psalm 55:21	The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war was in his heart: his words were softer than oil, yet were they drawn swords.
Psalm 55:22	Cast your burden on the LORD, and he shall sustain you: he shall never suffer the righteous to be moved.
Psalm 55:23	But you, O God, shall bring them down into the pit of destruction: bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half their days; but I will trust in you.
Psalm 56:1	Be merciful to me, O God: for man would swallow me up; he fighting daily oppresses me.
Psalm 56:2	My enemies would daily swallow me up: for they be many that fight against me, O you most High.
Psalm 56:3	What time I am afraid, I will trust in you.
Psalm 56:4	In God I will praise his word, in God I have put my trust; I will not fear what flesh can do to me.
Psalm 56:5	Every day they wrest my words: all their thoughts are against me for evil.
Psalm 56:6	They gather themselves together, they hide themselves, they mark my steps, when they wait for my soul.
Psalm 56:7	Shall they escape by iniquity? in your anger cast down the people, O God.
Psalm 56:8	You tell my wanderings: put you my tears into your bottle: are they not in your book?
Psalm 56:9	When I cry to you, then shall my enemies turn back: this I know; for God is for me.
Psalm 56:10	In God will I praise his word: in the LORD will I praise his word.
Psalm 56:11	In God have I put my trust: I will not be afraid what man can do to me.
Psalm 56:12	Your vows are on me, O God: I will render praises to you.
Psalm 56:13	For you have delivered my soul from death: will not you deliver my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of the living?
Psalm 57:1	Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me: for my soul trusts in you: yes, in the shadow of your wings will I make my refuge, until these calamities be over.
Psalm 57:2	I will cry to God most high; to God that performes all things for me.
Psalm 57:3	He shall send from heaven, and save me from the reproach of him that would swallow me up. Selah. God shall send forth his mercy and his truth.
Psalm 57:4	My soul is among lions: and I lie even among them that are set on fire, even the sons of men, whose teeth are spears and arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword.
Psalm 57:5	Be you exalted, O God, above the heavens; let your glory be above all the earth.
Psalm 57:6	They have prepared a net for my steps; my soul is bowed down: they have dig a pit before me, into the middle whereof they are fallen themselves. Selah.
Psalm 57:7	My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is fixed: I will sing and give praise.
Psalm 57:8	Awake up, my glory; awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake early.
Psalm 57:9	I will praise you, O Lord, among the people: I will sing to you among the nations.
Psalm 57:10	For your mercy is great to the heavens, and your truth to the clouds.
Psalm 57:11	Be you exalted, O God, above the heavens: let your glory be above all the earth.
Psalm 58:1	Do you indeed speak righteousness, O congregation? do you judge uprightly, O you sons of men?
Psalm 58:2	Yes, in heart you work wickedness; you weigh the violence of your hands in the earth.
Psalm 58:3	The wicked are estranged from the womb: they go astray as soon as they be born, speaking lies.
Psalm 58:4	Their poison is like the poison of a serpent: they are like the deaf adder that stops her ear;
Psalm 58:5	Which will not listen to the voice of charmers, charming never so wisely.
Psalm 58:6	Break their teeth, O God, in their mouth: break out the great teeth of the young lions, O LORD.
Psalm 58:7	Let them melt away as waters which run continually: when he bends his bow to shoot his arrows, let them be as cut in pieces.
Psalm 58:8	As a snail which melts, let every one of them pass away: like the untimely birth of a woman, that they may not see the sun.
Psalm 58:9	Before your pots can feel the thorns, he shall take them away as with a whirlwind, both living, and in his wrath.
Psalm 58:10	The righteous shall rejoice when he sees the vengeance: he shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked.
Psalm 58:11	So that a man shall say, Truly there is a reward for the righteous: truly he is a God that judges in the earth.
Psalm 59:1	Deliver me from my enemies, O my God: defend me from them that rise up against me.
Psalm 59:2	Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, and save me from bloody men.
Psalm 59:3	For, see, they lie in wait for my soul: the mighty are gathered against me; not for my transgression, nor for my sin, O LORD.
Psalm 59:4	They run and prepare themselves without my fault: awake to help me, and behold.
Psalm 59:5	You therefore, O LORD God of hosts, the God of Israel, awake to visit all the heathen: be not merciful to any wicked transgressors. Selah.
Psalm 59:6	They return at evening: they make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city.
Psalm 59:7	Behold, they belch out with their mouth: swords are in their lips: for who, say they, does hear?
Psalm 59:8	But you, O LORD, shall laugh at them; you shall have all the heathen in derision.
Psalm 59:9	Because of his strength will I wait on you: for God is my defense.
Psalm 59:10	The God of my mercy shall prevent me: God shall let me see my desire on my enemies.
Psalm 59:11	Slay them not, lest my people forget: scatter them by your power; and bring them down, O Lord our shield.
Psalm 59:12	For the sin of their mouth and the words of their lips let them even be taken in their pride: and for cursing and lying which they speak.
Psalm 59:13	Consume them in wrath, consume them, that they may not be: and let them know that God rules in Jacob to the ends of the earth. Selah.
Psalm 59:14	And at evening let them return; and let them make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city.
Psalm 59:15	Let them wander up and down for meat, and grudge if they be not satisfied.
Psalm 59:16	But I will sing of your power; yes, I will sing aloud of your mercy in the morning: for you have been my defense and refuge in the day of my trouble.
Psalm 59:17	To you, O my strength, will I sing: for God is my defense, and the God of my mercy.
Psalm 60:1	O God, you have cast us off, you have scattered us, you have been displeased; O turn yourself to us again.
Psalm 60:2	You have made the earth to tremble; you have broken it: heal the breaches thereof; for it shakes.
Psalm 60:3	You have showed your people hard things: you have made us to drink the wine of astonishment.
Psalm 60:4	You have given a banner to them that fear you, that it may be displayed because of the truth. Selah.
Psalm 60:5	That your beloved may be delivered; save with your right hand, and hear me.
Psalm 60:6	God has spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth.
Psalm 60:7	Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the strength of my head; Judah is my lawgiver;
Psalm 60:8	Moab is my wash pot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe: Philistia, triumph you because of me.
Psalm 60:9	Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom?
Psalm 60:10	Will not you, O God, which had cast us off? and you, O God, which did not go out with our armies?
Psalm 60:11	Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man.
Psalm 60:12	Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall tread down our enemies.
Psalm 61:1	Hear my cry, O God; attend to my prayer.
Psalm 61:2	From the end of the earth will I cry to you, when my heart is overwhelmed: lead me to the rock that is higher than I.
Psalm 61:3	For you have been a shelter for me, and a strong tower from the enemy.
Psalm 61:4	I will abide in your tabernacle for ever: I will trust in the covert of your wings. Selah.
Psalm 61:5	For you, O God, have heard my vows: you have given me the heritage of those that fear your name.
Psalm 61:6	You will prolong the king’s life: and his years as many generations.
Psalm 61:7	He shall abide before God for ever: O prepare mercy and truth, which may preserve him.
Psalm 61:8	So will I sing praise to your name for ever, that I may daily perform my vows.
Psalm 62:1	Truly my soul waits on God: from him comes my salvation.
Psalm 62:2	He only is my rock and my salvation; he is my defense; I shall not be greatly moved.
Psalm 62:3	How long will you imagine mischief against a man? you shall be slain all of you: as a bowing wall shall you be, and as a tottering fence.
Psalm 62:4	They only consult to cast him down from his excellency: they delight in lies: they bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly. Selah.
Psalm 62:5	My soul, wait you only on God; for my expectation is from him.
Psalm 62:6	He only is my rock and my salvation: he is my defense; I shall not be moved.
Psalm 62:7	In God is my salvation and my glory: the rock of my strength, and my refuge, is in God.
Psalm 62:8	Trust in him at all times; you people, pour out your heart before him: God is a refuge for us. Selah.
Psalm 62:9	Surely men of low degree are vanity, and men of high degree are a lie: to be laid in the balance, they are altogether lighter than vanity.
Psalm 62:10	Trust not in oppression, and become not vain in robbery: if riches increase, set not your heart on them.
Psalm 62:11	God has spoken once; twice have I heard this; that power belongs to God.
Psalm 62:12	Also to you, O Lord, belongs mercy: for you render to every man according to his work.
Psalm 63:1	O God, you are my God; early will I seek you: my soul thirsts for you, my flesh longs for you in a dry and thirsty land, where no water is;
Psalm 63:2	To see your power and your glory, so as I have seen you in the sanctuary.
Psalm 63:3	Because your loving kindness is better than life, my lips shall praise you.
Psalm 63:4	Thus will I bless you while I live: I will lift up my hands in your name.
Psalm 63:5	My soul shall be satisfied as with marrow and fatness; and my mouth shall praise you with joyful lips:
Psalm 63:6	When I remember you on my bed, and meditate on you in the night watches.
Psalm 63:7	Because you have been my help, therefore in the shadow of your wings will I rejoice.
Psalm 63:8	My soul follows hard after you: your right hand upholds me.
Psalm 63:9	But those that seek my soul, to destroy it, shall go into the lower parts of the earth.
Psalm 63:10	They shall fall by the sword: they shall be a portion for foxes.
Psalm 63:11	But the king shall rejoice in God; every one that swears by him shall glory: but the mouth of them that speak lies shall be stopped.
Psalm 64:1	Hear my voice, O God, in my prayer: preserve my life from fear of the enemy.
Psalm 64:2	Hide me from the secret counsel of the wicked; from the insurrection of the workers of iniquity:
Psalm 64:3	Who whet their tongue like a sword, and bend their bows to shoot their arrows, even bitter words:
Psalm 64:4	That they may shoot in secret at the perfect: suddenly do they shoot at him, and fear not.
Psalm 64:5	They encourage themselves in an evil matter: they commune of laying snares privately; they say, Who shall see them?
Psalm 64:6	They search out iniquities; they accomplish a diligent search: both the inward thought of every one of them, and the heart, is deep.
Psalm 64:7	But God shall shoot at them with an arrow; suddenly shall they be wounded.
Psalm 64:8	So they shall make their own tongue to fall on themselves: all that see them shall flee away.
Psalm 64:9	And all men shall fear, and shall declare the work of God; for they shall wisely consider of his doing.
Psalm 64:10	The righteous shall be glad in the LORD, and shall trust in him; and all the upright in heart shall glory.
Psalm 65:1	Praise waits for you, O God, in Sion: and to you shall the vow be performed.
Psalm 65:2	O you that hear prayer, to you shall all flesh come.
Psalm 65:3	Iniquities prevail against me: as for our transgressions, you shall purge them away.
Psalm 65:4	Blessed is the man whom you choose, and cause to approach to you, that he may dwell in your courts: we shall be satisfied with the goodness of your house, even of your holy temple.
Psalm 65:5	By terrible things in righteousness will you answer us, O God of our salvation; who are the confidence of all the ends of the earth, and of them that are afar off on the sea:
Psalm 65:6	Which by his strength sets fast the mountains; being girded with power:
Psalm 65:7	Which stills the noise of the seas, the noise of their waves, and the tumult of the people.
Psalm 65:8	They also that dwell in the uttermost parts are afraid at your tokens: you make the outgoings of the morning and evening to rejoice.
Psalm 65:9	You visit the earth, and water it: you greatly enrich it with the river of God, which is full of water: you prepare them corn, when you have so provided for it.
Psalm 65:10	You water the ridges thereof abundantly: you settle the furrows thereof: you make it soft with showers: you bless the springing thereof.
Psalm 65:11	You crown the year with your goodness; and your paths drop fatness.
Psalm 65:12	They drop on the pastures of the wilderness: and the little hills rejoice on every side.
Psalm 65:13	The pastures are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are covered over with corn; they shout for joy, they also sing.
Psalm 66:1	Make a joyful noise to God, all you lands:
Psalm 66:2	Sing forth the honor of his name: make his praise glorious.
Psalm 66:3	Say to God, How terrible are you in your works! through the greatness of your power shall your enemies submit themselves to you.
Psalm 66:4	All the earth shall worship you, and shall sing to you; they shall sing to your name. Selah.
Psalm 66:5	Come and see the works of God: he is terrible in his doing toward the children of men.
Psalm 66:6	He turned the sea into dry land: they went through the flood on foot: there did we rejoice in him.
Psalm 66:7	He rules by his power for ever; his eyes behold the nations: let not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah.
Psalm 66:8	O bless our God, you people, and make the voice of his praise to be heard:
Psalm 66:9	Which holds our soul in life, and suffers not our feet to be moved.
Psalm 66:10	For you, O God, have proved us: you have tried us, as silver is tried.
Psalm 66:11	You brought us into the net; you laid affliction on our loins.
Psalm 66:12	You have caused men to ride over our heads; we went through fire and through water: but you brought us out into a wealthy place.
Psalm 66:13	I will go into your house with burnt offerings: I will pay you my vows,
Psalm 66:14	Which my lips have uttered, and my mouth has spoken, when I was in trouble.
Psalm 66:15	I will offer to you burnt sacrifices of fatted calves, with the incense of rams; I will offer bullocks with goats. Selah.
Psalm 66:16	Come and hear, all you that fear God, and I will declare what he has done for my soul.
Psalm 66:17	I cried to him with my mouth, and he was extolled with my tongue.
Psalm 66:18	If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me:
Psalm 66:19	But truly God has heard me; he has attended to the voice of my prayer.
Psalm 66:20	Blessed be God, which has not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me.
Psalm 67:1	God be merciful to us, and bless us; and cause his face to shine on us; Selah.
Psalm 67:2	That your way may be known on earth, your saving health among all nations.
Psalm 67:3	Let the people praise you, O God; let all the people praise you.
Psalm 67:4	O let the nations be glad and sing for joy: for you shall judge the people righteously, and govern the nations on earth. Selah.
Psalm 67:5	Let the people praise you, O God; let all the people praise you.
Psalm 67:6	Then shall the earth yield her increase; and God, even our own God, shall bless us.
Psalm 67:7	God shall bless us; and all the ends of the earth shall fear him.
Psalm 68:1	Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered: let them also that hate him flee before him.
Psalm 68:2	As smoke is driven away, so drive them away: as wax melts before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God.
Psalm 68:3	But let the righteous be glad; let them rejoice before God: yes, let them exceedingly rejoice.
Psalm 68:4	Sing to God, sing praises to his name: extol him that rides on the heavens by his name JAH, and rejoice before him.
Psalm 68:5	A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, is God in his holy habitation.
Psalm 68:6	God sets the solitary in families: he brings out those which are bound with chains: but the rebellious dwell in a dry land.
Psalm 68:7	O God, when you went forth before your people, when you did march through the wilderness; Selah:
Psalm 68:8	The earth shook, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God: even Sinai itself was moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel.
Psalm 68:9	You, O God, did send a plentiful rain, whereby you did confirm your inheritance, when it was weary.
Psalm 68:10	Your congregation has dwelled therein: you, O God, have prepared of your goodness for the poor.
Psalm 68:11	The Lord gave the word: great was the company of those that published it.
Psalm 68:12	Kings of armies did flee apace: and she that tarried at home divided the spoil.
Psalm 68:13	Though you have lien among the pots, yet shall you be as the wings of a dove covered with silver, and her feathers with yellow gold.
Psalm 68:14	When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it was white as snow in Salmon.
Psalm 68:15	The hill of God is as the hill of Bashan; an high hill as the hill of Bashan.
Psalm 68:16	Why leap you, you high hills? this is the hill which God desires to dwell in; yes, the LORD will dwell in it for ever.
Psalm 68:17	The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands of angels: the Lord is among them, as in Sinai, in the holy place.
Psalm 68:18	You have ascended on high, you have led captivity captive: you have received gifts for men; yes, for the rebellious also, that the LORD God might dwell among them.
Psalm 68:19	Blessed be the Lord, who daily loads us with benefits, even the God of our salvation. Selah.
Psalm 68:20	He that is our God is the God of salvation; and to GOD the Lord belong the issues from death.
Psalm 68:21	But God shall wound the head of his enemies, and the hairy scalp of such an one as goes on still in his trespasses.
Psalm 68:22	The Lord said, I will bring again from Bashan, I will bring my people again from the depths of the sea:
Psalm 68:23	That your foot may be dipped in the blood of your enemies, and the tongue of your dogs in the same.
Psalm 68:24	They have seen your goings, O God; even the goings of my God, my King, in the sanctuary.
Psalm 68:25	The singers went before, the players on instruments followed after; among them were the damsels playing with tambourines.
Psalm 68:26	Bless you God in the congregations, even the Lord, from the fountain of Israel.
Psalm 68:27	There is little Benjamin with their ruler, the princes of Judah and their council, the princes of Zebulun, and the princes of Naphtali.
Psalm 68:28	Your God has commanded your strength: strengthen, O God, that which you have worked for us.
Psalm 68:29	Because of your temple at Jerusalem shall kings bring presents to you.
Psalm 68:30	Rebuke the company of spearmen, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the people, till every one submit himself with pieces of silver: scatter you the people that delight in war.
Psalm 68:31	Princes shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands to God.
Psalm 68:32	Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth; O sing praises to the Lord; Selah:
Psalm 68:33	To him that rides on the heavens of heavens, which were of old; see, he does send out his voice, and that a mighty voice.
Psalm 68:34	Ascribe you strength to God: his excellency is over Israel, and his strength is in the clouds.
Psalm 68:35	O God, you are terrible out of your holy places: the God of Israel is he that gives strength and power to his people. Blessed be God.
Psalm 69:1	Save me, O God; for the waters are come in to my soul.
Psalm 69:2	I sink in deep mire, where there is no standing: I am come into deep waters, where the floods overflow me.
Psalm 69:3	I am weary of my crying: my throat is dried: my eyes fail while I wait for my God.
Psalm 69:4	They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head: they that would destroy me, being my enemies wrongfully, are mighty: then I restored that which I took not away.
Psalm 69:5	O God, you know my foolishness; and my sins are not hid from you.
Psalm 69:6	Let not them that wait on you, O Lord GOD of hosts, be ashamed for my sake: let not those that seek you be confounded for my sake, O God of Israel.
Psalm 69:7	Because for your sake I have borne reproach; shame has covered my face.
Psalm 69:8	I am become a stranger to my brothers, and an alien to my mother’s children.
Psalm 69:9	For the zeal of your house has eaten me up; and the reproaches of them that reproached you are fallen on me.
Psalm 69:10	When I wept, and chastened my soul with fasting, that was to my reproach.
Psalm 69:11	I made sackcloth also my garment; and I became a proverb to them.
Psalm 69:12	They that sit in the gate speak against me; and I was the song of the drunkards.
Psalm 69:13	But as for me, my prayer is to you, O LORD, in an acceptable time: O God, in the multitude of your mercy hear me, in the truth of your salvation.
Psalm 69:14	Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink: let me be delivered from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters.
Psalm 69:15	Let not the flood overflow me, neither let the deep swallow me up, and let not the pit shut her mouth on me.
Psalm 69:16	Hear me, O LORD; for your loving kindness is good: turn to me according to the multitude of your tender mercies.
Psalm 69:17	And hide not your face from your servant; for I am in trouble: hear me speedily.
Psalm 69:18	Draw near to my soul, and redeem it: deliver me because of my enemies.
Psalm 69:19	You have known my reproach, and my shame, and my dishonor: my adversaries are all before you.
Psalm 69:20	Reproach has broken my heart; and I am full of heaviness: and I looked for some to take pity, but there was none; and for comforters, but I found none.
Psalm 69:21	They gave me also gall for my meat; and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink.
Psalm 69:22	Let their table become a snare before them: and that which should have been for their welfare, let it become a trap.
Psalm 69:23	Let their eyes be darkened, that they see not; and make their loins continually to shake.
Psalm 69:24	Pour out your indignation on them, and let your wrathful anger take hold of them.
Psalm 69:25	Let their habitation be desolate; and let none dwell in their tents.
Psalm 69:26	For they persecute him whom you have smitten; and they talk to the grief of those whom you have wounded.
Psalm 69:27	Add iniquity to their iniquity: and let them not come into your righteousness.
Psalm 69:28	Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, and not be written with the righteous.
Psalm 69:29	But I am poor and sorrowful: let your salvation, O God, set me up on high.
Psalm 69:30	I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving.
Psalm 69:31	This also shall please the LORD better than an ox or bullock that has horns and hoofs.
Psalm 69:32	The humble shall see this, and be glad: and your heart shall live that seek God.
Psalm 69:33	For the LORD hears the poor, and despises not his prisoners.
Psalm 69:34	Let the heaven and earth praise him, the seas, and every thing that moves therein.
Psalm 69:35	For God will save Zion, and will build the cities of Judah: that they may dwell there, and have it in possession.
Psalm 69:36	The seed also of his servants shall inherit it: and they that love his name shall dwell therein.
Psalm 70:1	MAKE HASTE, O GOD, TO DELIVER ME; MAKE HASTE TO HELP ME, O LORD.
Psalm 70:2	Let them be ashamed and confounded that seek after my soul: let them be turned backward, and put to confusion, that desire my hurt.
Psalm 70:3	Let them be turned back for a reward of their shame that say, Aha, aha.
Psalm 70:4	Let all those that seek you rejoice and be glad in you: and let such as love your salvation say continually, Let God be magnified.
Psalm 70:5	But I am poor and needy: make haste to me, O God: you are my help and my deliverer; O LORD, make no tarrying.
Psalm 71:1	In you, O LORD, do I put my trust: let me never be put to confusion.
Psalm 71:2	Deliver me in your righteousness, and cause me to escape: incline your ear to me, and save me.
Psalm 71:3	Be you my strong habitation, whereunto I may continually resort: you have given commandment to save me; for you are my rock and my fortress.
Psalm 71:4	Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.
Psalm 71:5	For you are my hope, O Lord GOD: you are my trust from my youth.
Psalm 71:6	By you have I been held up from the womb: you are he that took me out of my mother’s bowels: my praise shall be continually of you.
Psalm 71:7	I am as a wonder to many; but you are my strong refuge.
Psalm 71:8	Let my mouth be filled with your praise and with your honor all the day.
Psalm 71:9	Cast me not off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength fails.
Psalm 71:10	For my enemies speak against me; and they that lay wait for my soul take counsel together,
Psalm 71:11	Saying, God has forsaken him: persecute and take him; for there is none to deliver him.
Psalm 71:12	O God, be not far from me: O my God, make haste for my help.
Psalm 71:13	Let them be confounded and consumed that are adversaries to my soul; let them be covered with reproach and dishonor that seek my hurt.
Psalm 71:14	But I will hope continually, and will yet praise you more and more.
Psalm 71:15	My mouth shall show forth your righteousness and your salvation all the day; for I know not the numbers thereof.
Psalm 71:16	I will go in the strength of the Lord GOD: I will make mention of your righteousness, even of your only.
Psalm 71:17	O God, you have taught me from my youth: and till now have I declared your wondrous works.
Psalm 71:18	Now also when I am old and gray headed, O God, forsake me not; until I have showed your strength to this generation, and your power to every one that is to come.
Psalm 71:19	Your righteousness also, O God, is very high, who have done great things: O God, who is like to you!
Psalm 71:20	You, which have showed me great and sore troubles, shall quicken me again, and shall bring me up again from the depths of the earth.
Psalm 71:21	You shall increase my greatness, and comfort me on every side.
Psalm 71:22	I will also praise you with the psaltery, even your truth, O my God: to you will I sing with the harp, O you Holy One of Israel.
Psalm 71:23	My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing to you; and my soul, which you have redeemed.
Psalm 71:24	My tongue also shall talk of your righteousness all the day long: for they are confounded, for they are brought to shame, that seek my hurt.
Psalm 72:1	Give the king your judgments, O God, and your righteousness to the king’s son.
Psalm 72:2	He shall judge your people with righteousness, and your poor with judgment.
Psalm 72:3	The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the little hills, by righteousness.
Psalm 72:4	He shall judge the poor of the people, he shall save the children of the needy, and shall break in pieces the oppressor.
Psalm 72:5	They shall fear you as long as the sun and moon endure, throughout all generations.
Psalm 72:6	He shall come down like rain on the mown grass: as showers that water the earth.
Psalm 72:7	In his days shall the righteous flourish; and abundance of peace so long as the moon endures.
Psalm 72:8	He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth.
Psalm 72:9	They that dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him; and his enemies shall lick the dust.
Psalm 72:10	The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents: the kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts.
Psalm 72:11	Yes, all kings shall fall down before him: all nations shall serve him.
Psalm 72:12	For he shall deliver the needy when he cries; the poor also, and him that has no helper.
Psalm 72:13	He shall spare the poor and needy, and shall save the souls of the needy.
Psalm 72:14	He shall redeem their soul from deceit and violence: and precious shall their blood be in his sight.
Psalm 72:15	And he shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba: prayer also shall be made for him continually; and daily shall he be praised.
Psalm 72:16	There shall be an handful of corn in the earth on the top of the mountains; the fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon: and they of the city shall flourish like grass of the earth.
Psalm 72:17	His name shall endure for ever: his name shall be continued as long as the sun: and men shall be blessed in him: all nations shall call him blessed.
Psalm 72:18	Blessed be the LORD God, the God of Israel, who only does wondrous things.
Psalm 72:19	And blessed be his glorious name for ever: and let the whole earth be filled with his glory; Amen, and Amen.
Psalm 72:20	The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended.
Psalm 73:1	Truly God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean heart.
Psalm 73:2	But as for me, my feet were almost gone; my steps had well near slipped.
Psalm 73:3	For I was envious at the foolish, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.
Psalm 73:4	For there are no bands in their death: but their strength is firm.
Psalm 73:5	They are not in trouble as other men; neither are they plagued like other men.
Psalm 73:6	Therefore pride compasses them about as a chain; violence covers them as a garment.
Psalm 73:7	Their eyes stand out with fatness: they have more than heart could wish.
Psalm 73:8	They are corrupt, and speak wickedly concerning oppression: they speak loftily.
Psalm 73:9	They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walks through the earth.
Psalm 73:10	Therefore his people return here: and waters of a full cup are wrung out to them.
Psalm 73:11	And they say, How does God know? and is there knowledge in the most High?
Psalm 73:12	Behold, these are the ungodly, who prosper in the world; they increase in riches.
Psalm 73:13	Truly I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in innocence.
Psalm 73:14	For all the day long have I been plagued, and chastened every morning.
Psalm 73:15	If I say, I will speak thus; behold, I should offend against the generation of your children.
Psalm 73:16	When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me;
Psalm 73:17	Until I went into the sanctuary of God; then understood I their end.
Psalm 73:18	Surely you did set them in slippery places: you cast them down into destruction.
Psalm 73:19	How are they brought into desolation, as in a moment! they are utterly consumed with terrors.
Psalm 73:20	As a dream when one wakes; so, O Lord, when you wake, you shall despise their image.
Psalm 73:21	Thus my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reins.
Psalm 73:22	So foolish was I, and ignorant: I was as a beast before you.
Psalm 73:23	Nevertheless I am continually with you: you have held me by my right hand.
Psalm 73:24	You shall guide me with your counsel, and afterward receive me to glory.
Psalm 73:25	Whom have I in heaven but you? and there is none on earth that I desire beside you.
Psalm 73:26	My flesh and my heart fails: but God is the strength of my heart, and my portion for ever.
Psalm 73:27	For, see, they that are far from you shall perish: you have destroyed all them that go a whoring from you.
Psalm 73:28	But it is good for me to draw near to God: I have put my trust in the Lord GOD, that I may declare all your works.
Psalm 74:1	O God, why have you cast us off for ever? why does your anger smoke against the sheep of your pasture?
Psalm 74:2	Remember your congregation, which you have purchased of old; the rod of your inheritance, which you have redeemed; this mount Zion, wherein you have dwelled.
Psalm 74:3	Lift up your feet to the perpetual desolations; even all that the enemy has done wickedly in the sanctuary.
Psalm 74:4	Your enemies roar in the middle of your congregations; they set up their ensigns for signs.
Psalm 74:5	A man was famous according as he had lifted up axes on the thick trees.
Psalm 74:6	But now they break down the carved work thereof at once with axes and hammers.
Psalm 74:7	They have cast fire into your sanctuary, they have defiled by casting down the dwelling place of your name to the ground.
Psalm 74:8	They said in their hearts, Let us destroy them together: they have burned up all the synagogues of God in the land.
Psalm 74:9	We see not our signs: there is no more any prophet: neither is there among us any that knows how long.
Psalm 74:10	O God, how long shall the adversary reproach? shall the enemy blaspheme your name for ever?
Psalm 74:11	Why withdraw you your hand, even your right hand? pluck it out of your bosom.
Psalm 74:12	For God is my King of old, working salvation in the middle of the earth.
Psalm 74:13	You did divide the sea by your strength: you brake the heads of the dragons in the waters.
Psalm 74:14	You brake the heads of leviathan in pieces, and gave him to be meat to the people inhabiting the wilderness.
Psalm 74:15	You did split the fountain and the flood: you dried up mighty rivers.
Psalm 74:16	The day is yours, the night also is yours: you have prepared the light and the sun.
Psalm 74:17	You have set all the borders of the earth: you have made summer and winter.
Psalm 74:18	Remember this, that the enemy has reproached, O LORD, and that the foolish people have blasphemed your name.
Psalm 74:19	O deliver not the soul of your turtledove to the multitude of the wicked: forget not the congregation of your poor for ever.
Psalm 74:20	Have respect to the covenant: for the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of cruelty.
Psalm 74:21	O let not the oppressed return ashamed: let the poor and needy praise your name.
Psalm 74:22	Arise, O God, plead your own cause: remember how the foolish man reproaches you daily.
Psalm 74:23	Forget not the voice of your enemies: the tumult of those that rise up against you increases continually.
Psalm 75:1	To you, O God, do we give thanks, to you do we give thanks: for that your name is near your wondrous works declare.
Psalm 75:2	When I shall receive the congregation I will judge uprightly.
Psalm 75:3	The earth and all the inhabitants thereof are dissolved: I bear up the pillars of it. Selah.
Psalm 75:4	I said to the fools, Deal not foolishly: and to the wicked, Lift not up the horn:
Psalm 75:5	Lift not up your horn on high: speak not with a stiff neck.
Psalm 75:6	For promotion comes neither from the east, nor from the west, nor from the south.
Psalm 75:7	But God is the judge: he puts down one, and sets up another.
Psalm 75:8	For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup, and the wine is red; it is full of mixture; and he pours out of the same: but the dregs thereof, all the wicked of the earth shall wring them out, and drink them.
Psalm 75:9	But I will declare for ever; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob.
Psalm 75:10	All the horns of the wicked also will I cut off; but the horns of the righteous shall be exalted.
Psalm 76:1	In Judah is God known: his name is great in Israel.
Psalm 76:2	In Salem also is his tabernacle, and his dwelling place in Zion.
Psalm 76:3	There broke he the arrows of the bow, the shield, and the sword, and the battle. Selah.
Psalm 76:4	You are more glorious and excellent than the mountains of prey.
Psalm 76:5	The stouthearted are spoiled, they have slept their sleep: and none of the men of might have found their hands.
Psalm 76:6	At your rebuke, O God of Jacob, both the chariot and horse are cast into a dead sleep.
Psalm 76:7	You, even you, are to be feared: and who may stand in your sight when once you are angry?
Psalm 76:8	You did cause judgment to be heard from heaven; the earth feared, and was still,
Psalm 76:9	When God arose to judgment, to save all the meek of the earth. Selah.
Psalm 76:10	Surely the wrath of man shall praise you: the remainder of wrath shall you restrain.
Psalm 76:11	Vow, and pay to the LORD your God: let all that be round about him bring presents to him that ought to be feared.
Psalm 76:12	He shall cut off the spirit of princes: he is terrible to the kings of the earth.
Psalm 77:1	I cried to God with my voice, even to God with my voice; and he gave ear to me.
Psalm 77:2	In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord: my sore ran in the night, and ceased not: my soul refused to be comforted.
Psalm 77:3	I remembered God, and was troubled: I complained, and my spirit was overwhelmed. Selah.
Psalm 77:4	You hold my eyes waking: I am so troubled that I cannot speak.
Psalm 77:5	I have considered the days of old, the years of ancient times.
Psalm 77:6	I call to remembrance my song in the night: I commune with my own heart: and my spirit made diligent search.
Psalm 77:7	Will the Lord cast off for ever? and will he be favorable no more?
Psalm 77:8	Is his mercy clean gone for ever? does his promise fail for ever more?
Psalm 77:9	Has God forgotten to be gracious? has he in anger shut up his tender mercies? Selah.
Psalm 77:10	And I said, This is my infirmity: but I will remember the years of the right hand of the most High.
Psalm 77:11	I will remember the works of the LORD: surely I will remember your wonders of old.
Psalm 77:12	I will meditate also of all your work, and talk of your doings.
Psalm 77:13	Your way, O God, is in the sanctuary: who is so great a God as our God?
Psalm 77:14	You are the God that do wonders: you have declared your strength among the people.
Psalm 77:15	You have with your arm redeemed your people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah.
Psalm 77:16	The waters saw you, O God, the waters saw you; they were afraid: the depths also were troubled.
Psalm 77:17	The clouds poured out water: the skies sent out a sound: your arrows also went abroad.
Psalm 77:18	The voice of your thunder was in the heaven: the lightning lightened the world: the earth trembled and shook.
Psalm 77:19	Your way is in the sea, and your path in the great waters, and your footsteps are not known.
Psalm 77:20	You led your people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron.
Psalm 78:1	Give ear, O my people, to my law: incline your ears to the words of my mouth.
Psalm 78:2	I will open my mouth in a parable: I will utter dark sayings of old:
Psalm 78:3	Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us.
Psalm 78:4	We will not hide them from their children, showing to the generation to come the praises of the LORD, and his strength, and his wonderful works that he has done.
Psalm 78:5	For he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should make them known to their children:
Psalm 78:6	That the generation to come might know them, even the children which should be born; who should arise and declare them to their children:
Psalm 78:7	That they might set their hope in God, and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments:
Psalm 78:8	And might not be as their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation; a generation that set not their heart aright, and whose spirit was not steadfast with God.
Psalm 78:9	The children of Ephraim, being armed, and carrying bows, turned back in the day of battle.
Psalm 78:10	They kept not the covenant of God, and refused to walk in his law;
Psalm 78:11	And forgot his works, and his wonders that he had showed them.
Psalm 78:12	Marvelous things did he in the sight of their fathers, in the land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan.
Psalm 78:13	He divided the sea, and caused them to pass through; and he made the waters to stand as an heap.
Psalm 78:14	In the daytime also he led them with a cloud, and all the night with a light of fire.
Psalm 78:15	He split the rocks in the wilderness, and gave them drink as out of the great depths.
Psalm 78:16	He brought streams also out of the rock, and caused waters to run down like rivers.
Psalm 78:17	And they sinned yet more against him by provoking the most High in the wilderness.
Psalm 78:18	And they tempted God in their heart by asking meat for their lust.
Psalm 78:19	Yes, they spoke against God; they said, Can God furnish a table in the wilderness?
Psalm 78:20	Behold, he smote the rock, that the waters gushed out, and the streams overflowed; can he give bread also? can he provide flesh for his people?
Psalm 78:21	Therefore the LORD heard this, and was wroth: so a fire was kindled against Jacob, and anger also came up against Israel;
Psalm 78:22	Because they believed not in God, and trusted not in his salvation:
Psalm 78:23	Though he had commanded the clouds from above, and opened the doors of heaven,
Psalm 78:24	And had rained down manna on them to eat, and had given them of the corn of heaven.
Psalm 78:25	Man did eat angels’ food: he sent them meat to the full.
Psalm 78:26	He caused an east wind to blow in the heaven: and by his power he brought in the south wind.
Psalm 78:27	He rained flesh also on them as dust, and feathered fowls like as the sand of the sea:
Psalm 78:28	And he let it fall in the middle of their camp, round about their habitations.
Psalm 78:29	So they did eat, and were well filled: for he gave them their own desire;
Psalm 78:30	They were not estranged from their lust. But while their meat was yet in their mouths,
Psalm 78:31	The wrath of God came on them, and slew the fattest of them, and smote down the chosen men of Israel.
Psalm 78:32	For all this they sinned still, and believed not for his wondrous works.
Psalm 78:33	Therefore their days did he consume in vanity, and their years in trouble.
Psalm 78:34	When he slew them, then they sought him: and they returned and inquired early after God.
Psalm 78:35	And they remembered that God was their rock, and the high God their redeemer.
Psalm 78:36	Nevertheless they did flatter him with their mouth, and they lied to him with their tongues.
Psalm 78:37	For their heart was not right with him, neither were they steadfast in his covenant.
Psalm 78:38	But he, being full of compassion, forgave their iniquity, and destroyed them not: yes, many a time turned he his anger away, and did not stir up all his wrath.
Psalm 78:39	For he remembered that they were but flesh; a wind that passes away, and comes not again.
Psalm 78:40	How oft did they provoke him in the wilderness, and grieve him in the desert!
Psalm 78:41	Yes, they turned back and tempted God, and limited the Holy One of Israel.
Psalm 78:42	They remembered not his hand, nor the day when he delivered them from the enemy.
Psalm 78:43	How he had worked his signs in Egypt, and his wonders in the field of Zoan.
Psalm 78:44	And had turned their rivers into blood; and their floods, that they could not drink.
Psalm 78:45	He sent divers sorts of flies among them, which devoured them; and frogs, which destroyed them.
Psalm 78:46	He gave also their increase to the caterpillar, and their labor to the locust.
Psalm 78:47	He destroyed their vines with hail, and their sycomore trees with frost.
Psalm 78:48	He gave up their cattle also to the hail, and their flocks to hot thunderbolts.
Psalm 78:49	He cast on them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, and indignation, and trouble, by sending evil angels among them.
Psalm 78:50	He made a way to his anger; he spared not their soul from death, but gave their life over to the pestilence;
Psalm 78:51	And smote all the firstborn in Egypt; the chief of their strength in the tabernacles of Ham:
Psalm 78:52	But made his own people to go forth like sheep, and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.
Psalm 78:53	And he led them on safely, so that they feared not: but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.
Psalm 78:54	And he brought them to the border of his sanctuary, even to this mountain, which his right hand had purchased.
Psalm 78:55	He cast out the heathen also before them, and divided them an inheritance by line, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents.
Psalm 78:56	Yet they tempted and provoked the most high God, and kept not his testimonies:
Psalm 78:57	But turned back, and dealt unfaithfully like their fathers: they were turned aside like a deceitful bow.
Psalm 78:58	For they provoked him to anger with their high places, and moved him to jealousy with their graven images.
Psalm 78:59	When God heard this, he was wroth, and greatly abhorred Israel:
Psalm 78:60	So that he forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, the tent which he placed among men;
Psalm 78:61	And delivered his strength into captivity, and his glory into the enemy’s hand.
Psalm 78:62	He gave his people over also to the sword; and was wroth with his inheritance.
Psalm 78:63	The fire consumed their young men; and their maidens were not given to marriage.
Psalm 78:64	Their priests fell by the sword; and their widows made no lamentation.
Psalm 78:65	Then the LORD awaked as one out of sleep, and like a mighty man that shouts by reason of wine.
Psalm 78:66	And he smote his enemies in the hinder parts: he put them to a perpetual reproach.
Psalm 78:67	Moreover he refused the tabernacle of Joseph, and chose not the tribe of Ephraim:
Psalm 78:68	But chose the tribe of Judah, the mount Zion which he loved.
Psalm 78:69	And he built his sanctuary like high palaces, like the earth which he has established for ever.
Psalm 78:70	He chose David also his servant, and took him from the sheepfolds:
Psalm 78:71	From following the ewes great with young he brought him to feed Jacob his people, and Israel his inheritance.
Psalm 78:72	So he fed them according to the integrity of his heart; and guided them by the skillfulness of his hands.
Psalm 79:1	O God, the heathen are come into your inheritance; your holy temple have they defiled; they have laid Jerusalem on heaps.
Psalm 79:2	The dead bodies of your servants have they given to be meat to the fowls of the heaven, the flesh of your saints to the beasts of the earth.
Psalm 79:3	Their blood have they shed like water round about Jerusalem; and there was none to bury them.
Psalm 79:4	We are become a reproach to our neighbors, a scorn and derision to them that are round about us.
Psalm 79:5	How long, LORD? will you be angry for ever? shall your jealousy burn like fire?
Psalm 79:6	Pour out your wrath on the heathen that have not known you, and on the kingdoms that have not called on your name.
Psalm 79:7	For they have devoured Jacob, and laid waste his dwelling place.
Psalm 79:8	O remember not against us former iniquities: let your tender mercies speedily prevent us: for we are brought very low.
Psalm 79:9	Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of your name: and deliver us, and purge away our sins, for your name’s sake.
Psalm 79:10	Why should the heathen say, Where is their God? let him be known among the heathen in our sight by the revenging of the blood of your servants which is shed.
Psalm 79:11	Let the sighing of the prisoner come before you; according to the greatness of your power preserve you those that are appointed to die;
Psalm 79:12	And render to our neighbors sevenfold into their bosom their reproach, with which they have reproached you, O Lord.
Psalm 79:13	So we your people and sheep of your pasture will give you thanks for ever: we will show forth your praise to all generations.
Psalm 80:1	Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, you that lead Joseph like a flock; you that dwell between the cherubim, shine forth.
Psalm 80:2	Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh stir up your strength, and come and save us.
Psalm 80:3	Turn us again, O God, and cause your face to shine; and we shall be saved.
Psalm 80:4	O LORD God of hosts, how long will you be angry against the prayer of your people?
Psalm 80:5	You feed them with the bread of tears; and give them tears to drink in great measure.
Psalm 80:6	You make us a strife to our neighbors: and our enemies laugh among themselves.
Psalm 80:7	Turn us again, O God of hosts, and cause your face to shine; and we shall be saved.
Psalm 80:8	You have brought a vine out of Egypt: you have cast out the heathen, and planted it.
Psalm 80:9	You prepared room before it, and did cause it to take deep root, and it filled the land.
Psalm 80:10	The hills were covered with the shadow of it, and the boughs thereof were like the goodly cedars.
Psalm 80:11	She sent out her boughs to the sea, and her branches to the river.
Psalm 80:12	Why have you then broken down her hedges, so that all they which pass by the way do pluck her?
Psalm 80:13	The boar out of the wood does waste it, and the wild beast of the field does devour it.
Psalm 80:14	Return, we beseech you, O God of hosts: look down from heaven, and behold, and visit this vine;
Psalm 80:15	And the vineyard which your right hand has planted, and the branch that you made strong for yourself.
Psalm 80:16	It is burned with fire, it is cut down: they perish at the rebuke of your countenance.
Psalm 80:17	Let your hand be on the man of your right hand, on the son of man whom you made strong for yourself.
Psalm 80:18	So will not we go back from you: quicken us, and we will call on your name.
Psalm 80:19	Turn us again, O LORD God of hosts, cause your face to shine; and we shall be saved.
Psalm 81:1	Sing aloud to God our strength: make a joyful noise to the God of Jacob.
Psalm 81:2	Take a psalm, and bring here the tambourine, the pleasant harp with the psaltery.
Psalm 81:3	Blow up the trumpet in the new moon, in the time appointed, on our solemn feast day.
Psalm 81:4	For this was a statute for Israel, and a law of the God of Jacob.
Psalm 81:5	This he ordained in Joseph for a testimony, when he went out through the land of Egypt: where I heard a language that I understood not.
Psalm 81:6	I removed his shoulder from the burden: his hands were delivered from the pots.
Psalm 81:7	You called in trouble, and I delivered you; I answered you in the secret place of thunder: I proved you at the waters of Meribah. Selah.
Psalm 81:8	Hear, O my people, and I will testify to you: O Israel, if you will listen to me;
Psalm 81:9	There shall no strange god be in you; neither shall you worship any strange god.
Psalm 81:10	I am the LORD your God, which brought you out of the land of Egypt: open your mouth wide, and I will fill it.
Psalm 81:11	But my people would not listen to my voice; and Israel would none of me.
Psalm 81:12	So I gave them up to their own hearts’ lust: and they walked in their own counsels.
Psalm 81:13	Oh that my people had listened to me, and Israel had walked in my ways!
Psalm 81:14	I should soon have subdued their enemies, and turned my hand against their adversaries.
Psalm 81:15	The haters of the LORD should have submitted themselves to him: but their time should have endured for ever.
Psalm 81:16	He should have fed them also with the finest of the wheat: and with honey out of the rock should I have satisfied you.
Psalm 82:1	God stands in the congregation of the mighty; he judges among the gods.
Psalm 82:2	How long will you judge unjustly, and accept the persons of the wicked? Selah.
Psalm 82:3	Defend the poor and fatherless: do justice to the afflicted and needy.
Psalm 82:4	Deliver the poor and needy: rid them out of the hand of the wicked.
Psalm 82:5	They know not, neither will they understand; they walk on in darkness: all the foundations of the earth are out of course.
Psalm 82:6	I have said, You are gods; and all of you are children of the most High.
Psalm 82:7	But you shall die like men, and fall like one of the princes.
Psalm 82:8	Arise, O God, judge the earth: for you shall inherit all nations.
Psalm 83:1	Keep not you silence, O God: hold not your peace, and be not still, O God.
Psalm 83:2	For, see, your enemies make a tumult: and they that hate you have lifted up the head.
Psalm 83:3	They have taken crafty counsel against your people, and consulted against your hidden ones.
Psalm 83:4	They have said, Come, and let us cut them off from being a nation; that the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance.
Psalm 83:5	For they have consulted together with one consent: they are confederate against you:
Psalm 83:6	The tabernacles of Edom, and the Ishmaelites; of Moab, and the Hagarenes;
Psalm 83:7	Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek; the Philistines with the inhabitants of Tyre;
Psalm 83:8	Assur also is joined with them: they have helped the children of Lot. Selah.
Psalm 83:9	Do to them as to the Midianites; as to Sisera, as to Jabin, at the brook of Kison:
Psalm 83:10	Which perished at Endor: they became as dung for the earth.
Psalm 83:11	Make their nobles like Oreb, and like Zeeb: yes, all their princes as Zebah, and as Zalmunna:
Psalm 83:12	Who said, Let us take to ourselves the houses of God in possession.
Psalm 83:13	O my God, make them like a wheel; as the stubble before the wind.
Psalm 83:14	As the fire burns a wood, and as the flame sets the mountains on fire;
Psalm 83:15	So persecute them with your tempest, and make them afraid with your storm.
Psalm 83:16	Fill their faces with shame; that they may seek your name, O LORD.
Psalm 83:17	Let them be confounded and troubled for ever; yes, let them be put to shame, and perish:
Psalm 83:18	That men may know that you, whose name alone is JEHOVAH, are the most high over all the earth.
Psalm 84:1	How amiable are your tabernacles, O LORD of hosts!
Psalm 84:2	My soul longs, yes, even faints for the courts of the LORD: my heart and my flesh cries out for the living God.
Psalm 84:3	Yes, the sparrow has found an house, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, even your altars, O LORD of hosts, my King, and my God.
Psalm 84:4	Blessed are they that dwell in your house: they will be still praising you. Selah.
Psalm 84:5	Blessed is the man whose strength is in you; in whose heart are the ways of them.
Psalm 84:6	Who passing through the valley of Baca make it a well; the rain also fills the pools.
Psalm 84:7	They go from strength to strength, every one of them in Zion appears before God.
Psalm 84:8	O LORD God of hosts, hear my prayer: give ear, O God of Jacob. Selah.
Psalm 84:9	Behold, O God our shield, and look on the face of your anointed.
Psalm 84:10	For a day in your courts is better than a thousand. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God, than to dwell in the tents of wickedness.
Psalm 84:11	For the LORD God is a sun and shield: the LORD will give grace and glory: no good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly.
Psalm 84:12	O LORD of hosts, blessed is the man that trusts in you.
Psalm 85:1	Lord, you have been favorable to your land: you have brought back the captivity of Jacob.
Psalm 85:2	You have forgiven the iniquity of your people, you have covered all their sin. Selah.
Psalm 85:3	You have taken away all your wrath: you have turned yourself from the fierceness of your anger.
Psalm 85:4	Turn us, O God of our salvation, and cause your anger toward us to cease.
Psalm 85:5	Will you be angry with us for ever? will you draw out your anger to all generations?
Psalm 85:6	Will you not revive us again: that your people may rejoice in you?
Psalm 85:7	Show us your mercy, O LORD, and grant us your salvation.
Psalm 85:8	I will hear what God the LORD will speak: for he will speak peace to his people, and to his saints: but let them not turn again to folly.
Psalm 85:9	Surely his salvation is near them that fear him; that glory may dwell in our land.
Psalm 85:10	Mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other.
Psalm 85:11	Truth shall spring out of the earth; and righteousness shall look down from heaven.
Psalm 85:12	Yes, the LORD shall give that which is good; and our land shall yield her increase.
Psalm 85:13	Righteousness shall go before him; and shall set us in the way of his steps.
Psalm 86:1	Bow down your ear, O LORD, hear me: for I am poor and needy.
Psalm 86:2	Preserve my soul; for I am holy: O you my God, save your servant that trusts in you.
Psalm 86:3	Be merciful to me, O Lord: for I cry to you daily.
Psalm 86:4	Rejoice the soul of your servant: for to you, O Lord, do I lift up my soul.
Psalm 86:5	For you, Lord, are good, and ready to forgive; and plenteous in mercy to all them that call on you.
Psalm 86:6	Give ear, O LORD, to my prayer; and attend to the voice of my supplications.
Psalm 86:7	In the day of my trouble I will call on you: for you will answer me.
Psalm 86:8	Among the gods there is none like to you, O Lord; neither are there any works like to your works.
Psalm 86:9	All nations whom you have made shall come and worship before you, O Lord; and shall glorify your name.
Psalm 86:10	For you are great, and do wondrous things: you are God alone.
Psalm 86:11	Teach me your way, O LORD; I will walk in your truth: unite my heart to fear your name.
Psalm 86:12	I will praise you, O Lord my God, with all my heart: and I will glorify your name for ever more.
Psalm 86:13	For great is your mercy toward me: and you have delivered my soul from the lowest hell.
Psalm 86:14	O God, the proud are risen against me, and the assemblies of violent men have sought after my soul; and have not set you before them.
Psalm 86:15	But you, O Lord, are a God full of compassion, and gracious, long suffering, and plenteous in mercy and truth.
Psalm 86:16	O turn to me, and have mercy on me; give your strength to your servant, and save the son of your handmaid.
Psalm 86:17	Show me a token for good; that they which hate me may see it, and be ashamed: because you, LORD, have helped me, and comforted me.
Psalm 87:1	His foundation is in the holy mountains.
Psalm 87:2	The LORD loves the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob.
Psalm 87:3	Glorious things are spoken of you, O city of God. Selah.
Psalm 87:4	I will make mention of Rahab and Babylon to them that know me: behold Philistia, and Tyre, with Ethiopia; this man was born there.
Psalm 87:5	And of Zion it shall be said, This and that man was born in her: and the highest himself shall establish her.
Psalm 87:6	The LORD shall count, when he writes up the people, that this man was born there. Selah.
Psalm 87:7	As well the singers as the players on instruments shall be there: all my springs are in you.
Psalm 88:1	O lord God of my salvation, I have cried day and night before you:
Psalm 88:2	Let my prayer come before you: incline your ear to my cry;
Psalm 88:3	For my soul is full of troubles: and my life draws near to the grave.
Psalm 88:4	I am counted with them that go down into the pit: I am as a man that has no strength:
Psalm 88:5	Free among the dead, like the slain that lie in the grave, whom you remember no more: and they are cut off from your hand.
Psalm 88:6	You have laid me in the lowest pit, in darkness, in the deeps.
Psalm 88:7	Your wrath lies hard on me, and you have afflicted me with all your waves. Selah.
Psalm 88:8	You have put away my acquaintance far from me; you have made me an abomination to them: I am shut up, and I cannot come forth.
Psalm 88:9	My eye mourns by reason of affliction: LORD, I have called daily on you, I have stretched out my hands to you.
Psalm 88:10	Will you show wonders to the dead? shall the dead arise and praise you? Selah.
Psalm 88:11	Shall your loving kindness be declared in the grave? or your faithfulness in destruction?
Psalm 88:12	Shall your wonders be known in the dark? and your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness?
Psalm 88:13	But to you have I cried, O LORD; and in the morning shall my prayer prevent you.
Psalm 88:14	LORD, why cast you off my soul? why hide you your face from me?
Psalm 88:15	I am afflicted and ready to die from my youth up: while I suffer your terrors I am distracted.
Psalm 88:16	Your fierce wrath goes over me; your terrors have cut me off.
Psalm 88:17	They came round about me daily like water; they compassed me about together.
Psalm 88:18	Lover and friend have you put far from me, and my acquaintance into darkness.
Psalm 89:1	I will sing of the mercies of the LORD for ever: with my mouth will I make known your faithfulness to all generations.
Psalm 89:2	For I have said, Mercy shall be built up for ever: your faithfulness shall you establish in the very heavens.
Psalm 89:3	I have made a covenant with my chosen, I have sworn to David my servant,
Psalm 89:4	Your seed will I establish for ever, and build up your throne to all generations. Selah.
Psalm 89:5	And the heavens shall praise your wonders, O LORD: your faithfulness also in the congregation of the saints.
Psalm 89:6	For who in the heaven can be compared to the LORD? who among the sons of the mighty can be likened to the LORD?
Psalm 89:7	God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, and to be had in reverence of all them that are about him.
Psalm 89:8	O LORD God of hosts, who is a strong LORD like to you? or to your faithfulness round about you?
Psalm 89:9	You rule the raging of the sea: when the waves thereof arise, you still them.
Psalm 89:10	You have broken Rahab in pieces, as one that is slain; you have scattered your enemies with your strong arm.
Psalm 89:11	The heavens are yours, the earth also is yours: as for the world and the fullness thereof, you have founded them.
Psalm 89:12	The north and the south you have created them: Tabor and Hermon shall rejoice in your name.
Psalm 89:13	You have a mighty arm: strong is your hand, and high is your right hand.
Psalm 89:14	Justice and judgment are the habitation of your throne: mercy and truth shall go before your face.
Psalm 89:15	Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound: they shall walk, O LORD, in the light of your countenance.
Psalm 89:16	In your name shall they rejoice all the day: and in your righteousness shall they be exalted.
Psalm 89:17	For you are the glory of their strength: and in your favor our horn shall be exalted.
Psalm 89:18	For the LORD is our defense; and the Holy One of Israel is our king.
Psalm 89:19	Then you spoke in vision to your holy one, and said, I have laid help on one that is mighty; I have exalted one chosen out of the people.
Psalm 89:20	I have found David my servant; with my holy oil have I anointed him:
Psalm 89:21	With whom my hand shall be established: my arm also shall strengthen him.
Psalm 89:22	The enemy shall not exact on him; nor the son of wickedness afflict him.
Psalm 89:23	And I will beat down his foes before his face, and plague them that hate him.
Psalm 89:24	But my faithfulness and my mercy shall be with him: and in my name shall his horn be exalted.
Psalm 89:25	I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers.
Psalm 89:26	He shall cry to me, You are my father, my God, and the rock of my salvation.
Psalm 89:27	Also I will make him my firstborn, higher than the kings of the earth.
Psalm 89:28	My mercy will I keep for him for ever more, and my covenant shall stand fast with him.
Psalm 89:29	His seed also will I make to endure for ever, and his throne as the days of heaven.
Psalm 89:30	If his children forsake my law, and walk not in my judgments;
Psalm 89:31	If they break my statutes, and keep not my commandments;
Psalm 89:32	Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes.
Psalm 89:33	Nevertheless my loving kindness will I not utterly take from him, nor suffer my faithfulness to fail.
Psalm 89:34	My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips.
Psalm 89:35	Once have I sworn by my holiness that I will not lie to David.
Psalm 89:36	His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the sun before me.
Psalm 89:37	It shall be established for ever as the moon, and as a faithful witness in heaven. Selah.
Psalm 89:38	But you have cast off and abhorred, you have been wroth with your anointed.
Psalm 89:39	You have made void the covenant of your servant: you have profaned his crown by casting it to the ground.
Psalm 89:40	You have broken down all his hedges; you have brought his strong holds to ruin.
Psalm 89:41	All that pass by the way spoil him: he is a reproach to his neighbors.
Psalm 89:42	You have set up the right hand of his adversaries; you have made all his enemies to rejoice.
Psalm 89:43	You have also turned the edge of his sword, and have not made him to stand in the battle.
Psalm 89:44	You have made his glory to cease, and cast his throne down to the ground.
Psalm 89:45	The days of his youth have you shortened: you have covered him with shame. Selah.
Psalm 89:46	How long, LORD? will you hide yourself for ever? shall your wrath burn like fire?
Psalm 89:47	Remember how short my time is: why have you made all men in vain?
Psalm 89:48	What man is he that lives, and shall not see death? shall he deliver his soul from the hand of the grave? Selah.
Psalm 89:49	Lord, where are your former loving kindnesses, which you swore to David in your truth?
Psalm 89:50	Remember, Lord, the reproach of your servants; how I do bear in my bosom the reproach of all the mighty people;
Psalm 89:51	With which your enemies have reproached, O LORD; with which they have reproached the footsteps of your anointed.
Psalm 89:52	Blessed be the LORD for ever more. Amen, and Amen.
Psalm 90:1	Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations.
Psalm 90:2	Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, you are God.
Psalm 90:3	You turn man to destruction; and say, Return, you children of men.
Psalm 90:4	For a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is past, and as a watch in the night.
Psalm 90:5	You carry them away as with a flood; they are as a sleep: in the morning they are like grass which grows up.
Psalm 90:6	In the morning it flourishes, and grows up; in the evening it is cut down, and wither.
Psalm 90:7	For we are consumed by your anger, and by your wrath are we troubled.
Psalm 90:8	You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your countenance.
Psalm 90:9	For all our days are passed away in your wrath: we spend our years as a tale that is told.
Psalm 90:10	The days of our years are three score years and ten; and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength labor and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away.
Psalm 90:11	Who knows the power of your anger? even according to your fear, so is your wrath.
Psalm 90:12	So teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts to wisdom.
Psalm 90:13	Return, O LORD, how long? and let it repent you concerning your servants.
Psalm 90:14	O satisfy us early with your mercy; that we may rejoice and be glad all our days.
Psalm 90:15	Make us glad according to the days wherein you have afflicted us, and the years wherein we have seen evil.
Psalm 90:16	Let your work appear to your servants, and your glory to their children.
Psalm 90:17	And let the beauty of the LORD our God be on us: and establish you the work of our hands on us; yes, the work of our hands establish you it.
Psalm 91:1	He that dwells in the secret place of the most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty.
Psalm 91:2	I will say of the LORD, He is my refuge and my fortress: my God; in him will I trust.
Psalm 91:3	Surely he shall deliver you from the snare of the fowler, and from the noisome pestilence.
Psalm 91:4	He shall cover you with his feathers, and under his wings shall you trust: his truth shall be your shield and buckler.
Psalm 91:5	You shall not be afraid for the terror by night; nor for the arrow that flies by day;
Psalm 91:6	Nor for the pestilence that walks in darkness; nor for the destruction that wastes at noonday.
Psalm 91:7	A thousand shall fall at your side, and ten thousand at your right hand; but it shall not come near you.
Psalm 91:8	Only with your eyes shall you behold and see the reward of the wicked.
Psalm 91:9	Because you have made the LORD, which is my refuge, even the most High, your habitation;
Psalm 91:10	There shall no evil befall you, neither shall any plague come near your dwelling.
Psalm 91:11	For he shall give his angels charge over you, to keep you in all your ways.
Psalm 91:12	They shall bear you up in their hands, lest you dash your foot against a stone.
Psalm 91:13	You shall tread on the lion and adder: the young lion and the dragon shall you trample under feet.
Psalm 91:14	Because he has set his love on me, therefore will I deliver him: I will set him on high, because he has known my name.
Psalm 91:15	He shall call on me, and I will answer him: I will be with him in trouble; I will deliver him, and honor him.
Psalm 91:16	With long life will I satisfy him, and show him my salvation.
Psalm 92:1	IT IS A GOOD THING TO GIVE THANKS UNTO THE LORD, AND TO SING PRAISES UNTO THY NAME, O MOST HIGH:
Psalm 92:2	To show forth your loving kindness in the morning, and your faithfulness every night,
Psalm 92:3	On an instrument of ten strings, and on the psaltery; on the harp with a solemn sound.
Psalm 92:4	For you, LORD, have made me glad through your work: I will triumph in the works of your hands.
Psalm 92:5	O LORD, how great are your works! and your thoughts are very deep.
Psalm 92:6	A brutish man knows not; neither does a fool understand this.
Psalm 92:7	When the wicked spring as the grass, and when all the workers of iniquity do flourish; it is that they shall be destroyed for ever:
Psalm 92:8	But you, LORD, are most high for ever more.
Psalm 92:9	For, see, your enemies, O LORD, for, see, your enemies shall perish; all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered.
Psalm 92:10	But my horn shall you exalt like the horn of an unicorn: I shall be anointed with fresh oil.
Psalm 92:11	My eye also shall see my desire on my enemies, and my ears shall hear my desire of the wicked that rise up against me.
Psalm 92:12	The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree: he shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon.
Psalm 92:13	Those that be planted in the house of the LORD shall flourish in the courts of our God.
Psalm 92:14	They shall still bring forth fruit in old age; they shall be fat and flourishing;
Psalm 92:15	To show that the LORD is upright: he is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him.
Psalm 93:1	The LORD reigns, he is clothed with majesty; the LORD is clothed with strength, with which he has girded himself: the world also is established, that it cannot be moved.
Psalm 93:2	Your throne is established of old: you are from everlasting.
Psalm 93:3	The floods have lifted up, O LORD, the floods have lifted up their voice; the floods lift up their waves.
Psalm 93:4	The LORD on high is mightier than the noise of many waters, yes, than the mighty waves of the sea.
Psalm 93:5	Your testimonies are very sure: holiness becomes your house, O LORD, for ever.
Psalm 94:1	O Lord God, to whom vengeance belongs; O God, to whom vengeance belongs, show yourself.
Psalm 94:2	Lift up yourself, you judge of the earth: render a reward to the proud.
Psalm 94:3	LORD, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked triumph?
Psalm 94:4	How long shall they utter and speak hard things? and all the workers of iniquity boast themselves?
Psalm 94:5	They break in pieces your people, O LORD, and afflict your heritage.
Psalm 94:6	They slay the widow and the stranger, and murder the fatherless.
Psalm 94:7	Yet they say, The LORD shall not see, neither shall the God of Jacob regard it.
Psalm 94:8	Understand, you brutish among the people: and you fools, when will you be wise?
Psalm 94:9	He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? he that formed the eye, shall he not see?
Psalm 94:10	He that chastises the heathen, shall not he correct? he that teaches man knowledge, shall not he know?
Psalm 94:11	The LORD knows the thoughts of man, that they are vanity.
Psalm 94:12	Blessed is the man whom you chasten, O LORD, and teach him out of your law;
Psalm 94:13	That you may give him rest from the days of adversity, until the pit be dig for the wicked.
Psalm 94:14	For the LORD will not cast off his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance.
Psalm 94:15	But judgment shall return to righteousness: and all the upright in heart shall follow it.
Psalm 94:16	Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? or who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity?
Psalm 94:17	Unless the LORD had been my help, my soul had almost dwelled in silence.
Psalm 94:18	When I said, My foot slips; your mercy, O LORD, held me up.
Psalm 94:19	In the multitude of my thoughts within me your comforts delight my soul.
Psalm 94:20	Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship with you, which frames mischief by a law?
Psalm 94:21	They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous, and condemn the innocent blood.
Psalm 94:22	But the LORD is my defense; and my God is the rock of my refuge.
Psalm 94:23	And he shall bring on them their own iniquity, and shall cut them off in their own wickedness; yes, the LORD our God shall cut them off.
Psalm 95:1	O come, let us sing to the LORD: let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation.
Psalm 95:2	Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving, and make a joyful noise to him with psalms.
Psalm 95:3	For the LORD is a great God, and a great King above all gods.
Psalm 95:4	In his hand are the deep places of the earth: the strength of the hills is his also.
Psalm 95:5	The sea is his, and he made it: and his hands formed the dry land.
Psalm 95:6	O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before the LORD our maker.
Psalm 95:7	For he is our God; and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. To day if you will hear his voice,
Psalm 95:8	Harden not your heart, as in the provocation, and as in the day of temptation in the wilderness:
Psalm 95:9	When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my work.
Psalm 95:10	Forty years long was I grieved with this generation, and said, It is a people that do err in their heart, and they have not known my ways:
Psalm 95:11	To whom I swore in my wrath that they should not enter into my rest.
Psalm 96:1	O sing to the LORD a new song: sing to the LORD, all the earth.
Psalm 96:2	Sing to the LORD, bless his name; show forth his salvation from day to day.
Psalm 96:3	Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all people.
Psalm 96:4	For the LORD is great, and greatly to be praised: he is to be feared above all gods.
Psalm 96:5	For all the gods of the nations are idols: but the LORD made the heavens.
Psalm 96:6	Honor and majesty are before him: strength and beauty are in his sanctuary.
Psalm 96:7	Give to the LORD, O you kindreds of the people, give to the LORD glory and strength.
Psalm 96:8	Give to the LORD the glory due to his name: bring an offering, and come into his courts.
Psalm 96:9	O worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness: fear before him, all the earth.
Psalm 96:10	Say among the heathen that the LORD reigns: the world also shall be established that it shall not be moved: he shall judge the people righteously.
Psalm 96:11	Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad; let the sea roar, and the fullness thereof.
Psalm 96:12	Let the field be joyful, and all that is therein: then shall all the trees of the wood rejoice
Psalm 96:13	Before the LORD: for he comes, for he comes to judge the earth: he shall judge the world with righteousness, and the people with his truth.
Psalm 97:1	The LORD reigns; let the earth rejoice; let the multitude of isles be glad thereof.
Psalm 97:2	Clouds and darkness are round about him: righteousness and judgment are the habitation of his throne.
Psalm 97:3	A fire goes before him, and burns up his enemies round about.
Psalm 97:4	His lightning enlightened the world: the earth saw, and trembled.
Psalm 97:5	The hills melted like wax at the presence of the LORD, at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth.
Psalm 97:6	The heavens declare his righteousness, and all the people see his glory.
Psalm 97:7	Confounded be all they that serve graven images, that boast themselves of idols: worship him, all you gods.
Psalm 97:8	Zion heard, and was glad; and the daughters of Judah rejoiced because of your judgments, O LORD.
Psalm 97:9	For you, LORD, are high above all the earth: you are exalted far above all gods.
Psalm 97:10	You that love the LORD, hate evil: he preserves the souls of his saints; he delivers them out of the hand of the wicked.
Psalm 97:11	Light is sown for the righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart.
Psalm 97:12	Rejoice in the LORD, you righteous; and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness.
Psalm 98:1	O sing to the LORD a new song; for he has done marvelous things: his right hand, and his holy arm, has gotten him the victory.
Psalm 98:2	The LORD has made known his salvation: his righteousness has he openly showed in the sight of the heathen.
Psalm 98:3	He has remembered his mercy and his truth toward the house of Israel: all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God.
Psalm 98:4	Make a joyful noise to the LORD, all the earth: make a loud noise, and rejoice, and sing praise.
Psalm 98:5	Sing to the LORD with the harp; with the harp, and the voice of a psalm.
Psalm 98:6	With trumpets and sound of cornet make a joyful noise before the LORD, the King.
Psalm 98:7	Let the sea roar, and the fullness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein.
Psalm 98:8	Let the floods clap their hands: let the hills be joyful together
Psalm 98:9	Before the LORD; for he comes to judge the earth: with righteousness shall he judge the world, and the people with equity.
Psalm 99:1	The LORD reigns; let the people tremble: he sits between the cherubim; let the earth be moved.
Psalm 99:2	The LORD is great in Zion; and he is high above all the people.
Psalm 99:3	Let them praise your great and terrible name; for it is holy.
Psalm 99:4	The king’s strength also loves judgment; you do establish equity, you execute judgment and righteousness in Jacob.
Psalm 99:5	Exalt you the LORD our God, and worship at his footstool; for he is holy.
Psalm 99:6	Moses and Aaron among his priests, and Samuel among them that call on his name; they called on the LORD, and he answered them.
Psalm 99:7	He spoke to them in the cloudy pillar: they kept his testimonies, and the ordinance that he gave them.
Psalm 99:8	You answered them, O LORD our God: you were a God that forgave them, though you took vengeance of their inventions.
Psalm 99:9	Exalt the LORD our God, and worship at his holy hill; for the LORD our God is holy.
Psalm 100:1	Make a joyful noise to the LORD, all you lands.
Psalm 100:2	Serve the LORD with gladness: come before his presence with singing.
Psalm 100:3	Know you that the LORD he is God: it is he that has made us, and not we ourselves; we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture.
Psalm 100:4	Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: be thankful to him, and bless his name.
Psalm 100:5	For the LORD is good; his mercy is everlasting; and his truth endures to all generations.
Psalm 101:1	I will sing of mercy and judgment: to you, O LORD, will I sing.
Psalm 101:2	I will behave myself wisely in a perfect way. O when will you come to me? I will walk within my house with a perfect heart.
Psalm 101:3	I will set no wicked thing before my eyes: I hate the work of them that turn aside; it shall not stick to me.
Psalm 101:4	A fraudulent heart shall depart from me: I will not know a wicked person.
Psalm 101:5	Whoever privately slanders his neighbor, him will I cut off: him that has an high look and a proud heart will not I suffer.
Psalm 101:6	My eyes shall be on the faithful of the land, that they may dwell with me: he that walks in a perfect way, he shall serve me.
Psalm 101:7	He that works deceit shall not dwell within my house: he that tells lies shall not tarry in my sight.
Psalm 101:8	I will early destroy all the wicked of the land; that I may cut off all wicked doers from the city of the LORD.
Psalm 102:1	Hear my prayer, O LORD, and let my cry come to you.
Psalm 102:2	Hide not your face from me in the day when I am in trouble; incline your ear to me: in the day when I call answer me speedily.
Psalm 102:3	For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned as an hearth.
Psalm 102:4	My heart is smitten, and withered like grass; so that I forget to eat my bread.
Psalm 102:5	By reason of the voice of my groaning my bones stick to my skin.
Psalm 102:6	I am like a pelican of the wilderness: I am like an owl of the desert.
Psalm 102:7	I watch, and am as a sparrow alone on the house top.
Psalm 102:8	My enemies reproach me all the day; and they that are mad against me are sworn against me.
Psalm 102:9	For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mingled my drink with weeping.
Psalm 102:10	Because of your indignation and your wrath: for you have lifted me up, and cast me down.
Psalm 102:11	My days are like a shadow that declines; and I am withered like grass.
Psalm 102:12	But you, O LORD, shall endure for ever; and your remembrance to all generations.
Psalm 102:13	You shall arise, and have mercy on Zion: for the time to favor her, yes, the set time, is come.
Psalm 102:14	For your servants take pleasure in her stones, and favor the dust thereof.
Psalm 102:15	So the heathen shall fear the name of the LORD, and all the kings of the earth your glory.
Psalm 102:16	When the LORD shall build up Zion, he shall appear in his glory.
Psalm 102:17	He will regard the prayer of the destitute, and not despise their prayer.
Psalm 102:18	This shall be written for the generation to come: and the people which shall be created shall praise the LORD.
Psalm 102:19	For he has looked down from the height of his sanctuary; from heaven did the LORD behold the earth;
Psalm 102:20	To hear the groaning of the prisoner; to loose those that are appointed to death;
Psalm 102:21	To declare the name of the LORD in Zion, and his praise in Jerusalem;
Psalm 102:22	When the people are gathered together, and the kingdoms, to serve the LORD.
Psalm 102:23	He weakened my strength in the way; he shortened my days.
Psalm 102:24	I said, O my God, take me not away in the middle of my days: your years are throughout all generations.
Psalm 102:25	Of old have you laid the foundation of the earth: and the heavens are the work of your hands.
Psalm 102:26	They shall perish, but you shall endure: yes, all of them shall wax old like a garment; as a clothing shall you change them, and they shall be changed:
Psalm 102:27	But you are the same, and your years shall have no end.
Psalm 102:28	The children of your servants shall continue, and their seed shall be established before you.
Psalm 103:1	Bless the LORD, O my soul: and all that is within me, bless his holy name.
Psalm 103:2	Bless the LORD, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits:
Psalm 103:3	Who forgives all your iniquities; who heals all your diseases;
Psalm 103:4	Who redeems your life from destruction; who crowns you with loving kindness and tender mercies;
Psalm 103:5	Who satisfies your mouth with good things; so that your youth is renewed like the eagle’s.
Psalm 103:6	The LORD executes righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed.
Psalm 103:7	He made known his ways to Moses, his acts to the children of Israel.
Psalm 103:8	The LORD is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy.
Psalm 103:9	He will not always chide: neither will he keep his anger for ever.
Psalm 103:10	He has not dealt with us after our sins; nor rewarded us according to our iniquities.
Psalm 103:11	For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him.
Psalm 103:12	As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us.
Psalm 103:13	Like as a father pities his children, so the LORD pities them that fear him.
Psalm 103:14	For he knows our frame; he remembers that we are dust.
Psalm 103:15	As for man, his days are as grass: as a flower of the field, so he flourishes.
Psalm 103:16	For the wind passes over it, and it is gone; and the place thereof shall know it no more.
Psalm 103:17	But the mercy of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting on them that fear him, and his righteousness to children’s children;
Psalm 103:18	To such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his commandments to do them.
Psalm 103:19	The LORD has prepared his throne in the heavens; and his kingdom rules over all.
Psalm 103:20	Bless the LORD, you his angels, that excel in strength, that do his commandments, hearkening to the voice of his word.
Psalm 103:21	Bless you the LORD, all you his hosts; you ministers of his, that do his pleasure.
Psalm 103:22	Bless the LORD, all his works in all places of his dominion: bless the LORD, O my soul.
Psalm 104:1	Bless the LORD, O my soul. O LORD my God, you are very great; you are clothed with honor and majesty.
Psalm 104:2	Who cover yourself with light as with a garment: who stretch out the heavens like a curtain:
Psalm 104:3	Who lays the beams of his chambers in the waters: who makes the clouds his chariot: who walks on the wings of the wind:
Psalm 104:4	Who makes his angels spirits; his ministers a flaming fire:
Psalm 104:5	Who laid the foundations of the earth, that it should not be removed for ever.
Psalm 104:6	You covered it with the deep as with a garment: the waters stood above the mountains.
Psalm 104:7	At your rebuke they fled; at the voice of your thunder they hurried away.
Psalm 104:8	They go up by the mountains; they go down by the valleys to the place which you have founded for them.
Psalm 104:9	You have set a bound that they may not pass over; that they turn not again to cover the earth.
Psalm 104:10	He sends the springs into the valleys, which run among the hills.
Psalm 104:11	They give drink to every beast of the field: the wild asses quench their thirst.
Psalm 104:12	By them shall the fowls of the heaven have their habitation, which sing among the branches.
Psalm 104:13	He waters the hills from his chambers: the earth is satisfied with the fruit of your works.
Psalm 104:14	He causes the grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for the service of man: that he may bring forth food out of the earth;
Psalm 104:15	And wine that makes glad the heart of man, and oil to make his face to shine, and bread which strengthens man’s heart.
Psalm 104:16	The trees of the LORD are full of sap; the cedars of Lebanon, which he has planted;
Psalm 104:17	Where the birds make their nests: as for the stork, the fir trees are her house.
Psalm 104:18	The high hills are a refuge for the wild goats; and the rocks for the conies.
Psalm 104:19	He appointed the moon for seasons: the sun knows his going down.
Psalm 104:20	You make darkness, and it is night: wherein all the beasts of the forest do creep forth.
Psalm 104:21	The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their meat from God.
Psalm 104:22	The sun rises, they gather themselves together, and lay them down in their dens.
Psalm 104:23	Man goes forth to his work and to his labor until the evening.
Psalm 104:24	O LORD, how manifold are your works! in wisdom have you made them all: the earth is full of your riches.
Psalm 104:25	So is this great and wide sea, wherein are things creeping innumerable, both small and great beasts.
Psalm 104:26	There go the ships: there is that leviathan, whom you have made to play therein.
Psalm 104:27	These wait all on you; that you may give them their meat in due season.
Psalm 104:28	That you give them they gather: you open your hand, they are filled with good.
Psalm 104:29	You hide your face, they are troubled: you take away their breath, they die, and return to their dust.
Psalm 104:30	You send forth your spirit, they are created: and you renew the face of the earth.
Psalm 104:31	The glory of the LORD shall endure for ever: the LORD shall rejoice in his works.
Psalm 104:32	He looks on the earth, and it trembles: he touches the hills, and they smoke.
Psalm 104:33	I will sing to the LORD as long as I live: I will sing praise to my God while I have my being.
Psalm 104:34	My meditation of him shall be sweet: I will be glad in the LORD.
Psalm 104:35	Let the sinners be consumed out of the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless you the LORD, O my soul. Praise you the LORD.
Psalm 105:1	O give thanks to the LORD; call on his name: make known his deeds among the people.
Psalm 105:2	Sing to him, sing psalms to him: talk you of all his wondrous works.
Psalm 105:3	Glory you in his holy name: let the heart of them rejoice that seek the LORD.
Psalm 105:4	Seek the LORD, and his strength: seek his face ever more.
Psalm 105:5	Remember his marvelous works that he has done; his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth;
Psalm 105:6	O you seed of Abraham his servant, you children of Jacob his chosen.
Psalm 105:7	He is the LORD our God: his judgments are in all the earth.
Psalm 105:8	He has remembered his covenant for ever, the word which he commanded to a thousand generations.
Psalm 105:9	Which covenant he made with Abraham, and his oath to Isaac;
Psalm 105:10	And confirmed the same to Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant:
Psalm 105:11	Saying, To you will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance:
Psalm 105:12	When they were but a few men in number; yes, very few, and strangers in it.
Psalm 105:13	When they went from one nation to another, from one kingdom to another people;
Psalm 105:14	He suffered no man to do them wrong: yes, he reproved kings for their sakes;
Psalm 105:15	Saying, Touch not my anointed, and do my prophets no harm.
Psalm 105:16	Moreover he called for a famine on the land: he broke the whole staff of bread.
Psalm 105:17	He sent a man before them, even Joseph, who was sold for a servant:
Psalm 105:18	Whose feet they hurt with fetters: he was laid in iron:
Psalm 105:19	Until the time that his word came: the word of the LORD tried him.
Psalm 105:20	The king sent and loosed him; even the ruler of the people, and let him go free.
Psalm 105:21	He made him lord of his house, and ruler of all his substance:
Psalm 105:22	To bind his princes at his pleasure; and teach his senators wisdom.
Psalm 105:23	Israel also came into Egypt; and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham.
Psalm 105:24	And he increased his people greatly; and made them stronger than their enemies.
Psalm 105:25	He turned their heart to hate his people, to deal subtly with his servants.
Psalm 105:26	He sent Moses his servant; and Aaron whom he had chosen.
Psalm 105:27	They showed his signs among them, and wonders in the land of Ham.
Psalm 105:28	He sent darkness, and made it dark; and they rebelled not against his word.
Psalm 105:29	He turned their waters into blood, and slew their fish.
Psalm 105:30	Their land brought forth frogs in abundance, in the chambers of their kings.
Psalm 105:31	He spoke, and there came divers sorts of flies, and lice in all their coasts.
Psalm 105:32	He gave them hail for rain, and flaming fire in their land.
Psalm 105:33	He smote their vines also and their fig trees; and broke the trees of their coasts.
Psalm 105:34	He spoke, and the locusts came, and caterpillars, and that without number,
Psalm 105:35	And did eat up all the herbs in their land, and devoured the fruit of their ground.
Psalm 105:36	He smote also all the firstborn in their land, the chief of all their strength.
Psalm 105:37	He brought them forth also with silver and gold: and there was not one feeble person among their tribes.
Psalm 105:38	Egypt was glad when they departed: for the fear of them fell on them.
Psalm 105:39	He spread a cloud for a covering; and fire to give light in the night.
Psalm 105:40	The people asked, and he brought quails, and satisfied them with the bread of heaven.
Psalm 105:41	He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out; they ran in the dry places like a river.
Psalm 105:42	For he remembered his holy promise, and Abraham his servant.
Psalm 105:43	And he brought forth his people with joy, and his chosen with gladness:
Psalm 105:44	And gave them the lands of the heathen: and they inherited the labor of the people;
Psalm 105:45	That they might observe his statutes, and keep his laws. Praise you the LORD.
Psalm 106:1	Praise you the LORD. O give thanks to the LORD; for he is good: for his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 106:2	Who can utter the mighty acts of the LORD? who can show forth all his praise?
Psalm 106:3	Blessed are they that keep judgment, and he that does righteousness at all times.
Psalm 106:4	Remember me, O LORD, with the favor that you bore to your people: O visit me with your salvation;
Psalm 106:5	That I may see the good of your chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of your nation, that I may glory with your inheritance.
Psalm 106:6	We have sinned with our fathers, we have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly.
Psalm 106:7	Our fathers understood not your wonders in Egypt; they remembered not the multitude of your mercies; but provoked him at the sea, even at the Red sea.
Psalm 106:8	Nevertheless he saved them for his name’s sake, that he might make his mighty power to be known.
Psalm 106:9	He rebuked the Red sea also, and it was dried up: so he led them through the depths, as through the wilderness.
Psalm 106:10	And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.
Psalm 106:11	And the waters covered their enemies: there was not one of them left.
Psalm 106:12	Then believed they his words; they sang his praise.
Psalm 106:13	They soon forgot his works; they waited not for his counsel:
Psalm 106:14	But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted God in the desert.
Psalm 106:15	And he gave them their request; but sent leanness into their soul.
Psalm 106:16	They envied Moses also in the camp, and Aaron the saint of the LORD.
Psalm 106:17	The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan and covered the company of Abiram.
Psalm 106:18	And a fire was kindled in their company; the flame burned up the wicked.
Psalm 106:19	They made a calf in Horeb, and worshipped the molten image.
Psalm 106:20	Thus they changed their glory into the similitude of an ox that eats grass.
Psalm 106:21	They forgot God their savior, which had done great things in Egypt;
Psalm 106:22	Wondrous works in the land of Ham, and terrible things by the Red sea.
Psalm 106:23	Therefore he said that he would destroy them, had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, lest he should destroy them.
Psalm 106:24	Yes, they despised the pleasant land, they believed not his word:
Psalm 106:25	But murmured in their tents, and listened not to the voice of the LORD.
Psalm 106:26	Therefore he lifted up his hand against them, to overthrow them in the wilderness:
Psalm 106:27	To overthrow their seed also among the nations, and to scatter them in the lands.
Psalm 106:28	They joined themselves also to Baalpeor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead.
Psalm 106:29	Thus they provoked him to anger with their inventions: and the plague broke in on them.
Psalm 106:30	Then stood up Phinehas, and executed judgment: and so the plague was stayed.
Psalm 106:31	And that was counted to him for righteousness to all generations for ever more.
Psalm 106:32	They angered him also at the waters of strife, so that it went ill with Moses for their sakes:
Psalm 106:33	Because they provoked his spirit, so that he spoke unadvisedly with his lips.
Psalm 106:34	They did not destroy the nations, concerning whom the LORD commanded them:
Psalm 106:35	But were mingled among the heathen, and learned their works.
Psalm 106:36	And they served their idols: which were a snare to them.
Psalm 106:37	Yes, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to devils,
Psalm 106:38	And shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan: and the land was polluted with blood.
Psalm 106:39	Thus were they defiled with their own works, and went a whoring with their own inventions.
Psalm 106:40	Therefore was the wrath of the LORD kindled against his people, so that he abhorred his own inheritance.
Psalm 106:41	And he gave them into the hand of the heathen; and they that hated them ruled over them.
Psalm 106:42	Their enemies also oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their hand.
Psalm 106:43	Many times did he deliver them; but they provoked him with their counsel, and were brought low for their iniquity.
Psalm 106:44	Nevertheless he regarded their affliction, when he heard their cry:
Psalm 106:45	And he remembered for them his covenant, and repented according to the multitude of his mercies.
Psalm 106:46	He made them also to be pitied of all those that carried them captives.
Psalm 106:47	Save us, O LORD our God, and gather us from among the heathen, to give thanks to your holy name, and to triumph in your praise.
Psalm 106:48	Blessed be the LORD God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting: and let all the people say, Amen. Praise you the LORD.
Psalm 107:1	O give thanks to the LORD, for he is good: for his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 107:2	Let the redeemed of the LORD say so, whom he has redeemed from the hand of the enemy;
Psalm 107:3	And gathered them out of the lands, from the east, and from the west, from the north, and from the south.
Psalm 107:4	They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way; they found no city to dwell in.
Psalm 107:5	Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them.
Psalm 107:6	Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distresses.
Psalm 107:7	And he led them forth by the right way, that they might go to a city of habitation.
Psalm 107:8	Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!
Psalm 107:9	For he satisfies the longing soul, and fills the hungry soul with goodness.
Psalm 107:10	Such as sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and iron;
Psalm 107:11	Because they rebelled against the words of God, and contemned the counsel of the most High:
Psalm 107:12	Therefore he brought down their heart with labor; they fell down, and there was none to help.
Psalm 107:13	Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distresses.
Psalm 107:14	He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and broke their bands in sunder.
Psalm 107:15	Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!
Psalm 107:16	For he has broken the gates of brass, and cut the bars of iron in sunder.
Psalm 107:17	Fools because of their transgression, and because of their iniquities, are afflicted.
Psalm 107:18	Their soul abhors all manner of meat; and they draw near to the gates of death.
Psalm 107:19	Then they cry to the LORD in their trouble, and he saves them out of their distresses.
Psalm 107:20	He sent his word, and healed them, and delivered them from their destructions.
Psalm 107:21	Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!
Psalm 107:22	And let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare his works with rejoicing.
Psalm 107:23	They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great waters;
Psalm 107:24	These see the works of the LORD, and his wonders in the deep.
Psalm 107:25	For he commands, and raises the stormy wind, which lifts up the waves thereof.
Psalm 107:26	They mount up to the heaven, they go down again to the depths: their soul is melted because of trouble.
Psalm 107:27	They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wit’s end.
Psalm 107:28	Then they cry to the LORD in their trouble, and he brings them out of their distresses.
Psalm 107:29	He makes the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are still.
Psalm 107:30	Then are they glad because they be quiet; so he brings them to their desired haven.
Psalm 107:31	Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!
Psalm 107:32	Let them exalt him also in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders.
Psalm 107:33	He turns rivers into a wilderness, and the springs into dry ground;
Psalm 107:34	A fruitful land into barrenness, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein.
Psalm 107:35	He turns the wilderness into a standing water, and dry ground into springs.
Psalm 107:36	And there he makes the hungry to dwell, that they may prepare a city for habitation;
Psalm 107:37	And sow the fields, and plant vineyards, which may yield fruits of increase.
Psalm 107:38	He blesses them also, so that they are multiplied greatly; and suffers not their cattle to decrease.
Psalm 107:39	Again, they are diminished and brought low through oppression, affliction, and sorrow.
Psalm 107:40	He pours contempt on princes, and causes them to wander in the wilderness, where there is no way.
Psalm 107:41	Yet sets he the poor on high from affliction, and makes him families like a flock.
Psalm 107:42	The righteous shall see it, and rejoice: and all iniquity shall stop her mouth.
Psalm 107:43	Whoever is wise, and will observe these things, even they shall understand the loving kindness of the LORD.
Psalm 108:1	O god, my heart is fixed; I will sing and give praise, even with my glory.
Psalm 108:2	Awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake early.
Psalm 108:3	I will praise you, O LORD, among the people: and I will sing praises to you among the nations.
Psalm 108:4	For your mercy is great above the heavens: and your truth reaches to the clouds.
Psalm 108:5	Be you exalted, O God, above the heavens: and your glory above all the earth;
Psalm 108:6	That your beloved may be delivered: save with your right hand, and answer me.
Psalm 108:7	God has spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth.
Psalm 108:8	Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the strength of my head; Judah is my lawgiver;
Psalm 108:9	Moab is my wash pot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe; over Philistia will I triumph.
Psalm 108:10	Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom?
Psalm 108:11	Will not you, O God, who have cast us off? and will not you, O God, go forth with our hosts?
Psalm 108:12	Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man.
Psalm 108:13	Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall tread down our enemies.
Psalm 109:1	Hold not your peace, O God of my praise;
Psalm 109:2	For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful are opened against me: they have spoken against me with a lying tongue.
Psalm 109:3	They compassed me about also with words of hatred; and fought against me without a cause.
Psalm 109:4	For my love they are my adversaries: but I give myself to prayer.
Psalm 109:5	And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love.
Psalm 109:6	Set you a wicked man over him: and let Satan stand at his right hand.
Psalm 109:7	When he shall be judged, let him be condemned: and let his prayer become sin.
Psalm 109:8	Let his days be few; and let another take his office.
Psalm 109:9	Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow.
Psalm 109:10	Let his children be continually vagabonds, and beg: let them seek their bread also out of their desolate places.
Psalm 109:11	Let the extortionist catch all that he has; and let the strangers spoil his labor.
Psalm 109:12	Let there be none to extend mercy to him: neither let there be any to favor his fatherless children.
Psalm 109:13	Let his posterity be cut off; and in the generation following let their name be blotted out.
Psalm 109:14	Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with the LORD; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out.
Psalm 109:15	Let them be before the LORD continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth.
Psalm 109:16	Because that he remembered not to show mercy, but persecuted the poor and needy man, that he might even slay the broken in heart.
Psalm 109:17	As he loved cursing, so let it come to him: as he delighted not in blessing, so let it be far from him.
Psalm 109:18	As he clothed himself with cursing like as with his garment, so let it come into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones.
Psalm 109:19	Let it be to him as the garment which covers him, and for a girdle with which he is girded continually.
Psalm 109:20	Let this be the reward of my adversaries from the LORD, and of them that speak evil against my soul.
Psalm 109:21	But do you for me, O GOD the Lord, for your name’s sake: because your mercy is good, deliver you me.
Psalm 109:22	For I am poor and needy, and my heart is wounded within me.
Psalm 109:23	I am gone like the shadow when it declines: I am tossed up and down as the locust.
Psalm 109:24	My knees are weak through fasting; and my flesh fails of fatness.
Psalm 109:25	I became also a reproach to them: when they looked on me they shook their heads.
Psalm 109:26	Help me, O LORD my God: O save me according to your mercy:
Psalm 109:27	That they may know that this is your hand; that you, LORD, have done it.
Psalm 109:28	Let them curse, but bless you: when they arise, let them be ashamed; but let your servant rejoice.
Psalm 109:29	Let my adversaries be clothed with shame, and let them cover themselves with their own confusion, as with a mantle.
Psalm 109:30	I will greatly praise the LORD with my mouth; yes, I will praise him among the multitude.
Psalm 109:31	For he shall stand at the right hand of the poor, to save him from those that condemn his soul.
Psalm 110:1	The LORD said to my Lord, Sit you at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool.
Psalm 110:2	The LORD shall send the rod of your strength out of Zion: rule you in the middle of your enemies.
Psalm 110:3	Your people shall be willing in the day of your power, in the beauties of holiness from the womb of the morning: you have the dew of your youth.
Psalm 110:4	The LORD has sworn, and will not repent, You are a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
Psalm 110:5	The Lord at your right hand shall strike through kings in the day of his wrath.
Psalm 110:6	He shall judge among the heathen, he shall fill the places with the dead bodies; he shall wound the heads over many countries.
Psalm 110:7	He shall drink of the brook in the way: therefore shall he lift up the head.
Psalm 111:1	Praise you the LORD. I will praise the LORD with my whole heart, in the assembly of the upright, and in the congregation.
Psalm 111:2	The works of the LORD are great, sought out of all them that have pleasure therein.
Psalm 111:3	His work is honorable and glorious: and his righteousness endures for ever.
Psalm 111:4	He has made his wonderful works to be remembered: the LORD is gracious and full of compassion.
Psalm 111:5	He has given meat to them that fear him: he will ever be mindful of his covenant.
Psalm 111:6	He has showed his people the power of his works, that he may give them the heritage of the heathen.
Psalm 111:7	The works of his hands are verity and judgment; all his commandments are sure.
Psalm 111:8	They stand fast for ever and ever, and are done in truth and uprightness.
Psalm 111:9	He sent redemption to his people: he has commanded his covenant for ever: holy and reverend is his name.
Psalm 111:10	The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom: a good understanding have all they that do his commandments: his praise endures for ever.
Psalm 112:1	Praise you the LORD. Blessed is the man that fears the LORD, that delights greatly in his commandments.
Psalm 112:2	His seed shall be mighty on earth: the generation of the upright shall be blessed.
Psalm 112:3	Wealth and riches shall be in his house: and his righteousness endures for ever.
Psalm 112:4	To the upright there rises light in the darkness: he is gracious, and full of compassion, and righteous.
Psalm 112:5	A good man shows favor, and lends: he will guide his affairs with discretion.
Psalm 112:6	Surely he shall not be moved for ever: the righteous shall be in everlasting remembrance.
Psalm 112:7	He shall not be afraid of evil tidings: his heart is fixed, trusting in the LORD.
Psalm 112:8	His heart is established, he shall not be afraid, until he see his desire on his enemies.
Psalm 112:9	He has dispersed, he has given to the poor; his righteousness endures for ever; his horn shall be exalted with honor.
Psalm 112:10	The wicked shall see it, and be grieved; he shall gnash with his teeth, and melt away: the desire of the wicked shall perish.
Psalm 113:1	Praise you the LORD. Praise, O you servants of the LORD, praise the name of the LORD.
Psalm 113:2	Blessed be the name of the LORD from this time forth and for ever more.
Psalm 113:3	From the rising of the sun to the going down of the same the LORD’s name is to be praised.
Psalm 113:4	The LORD is high above all nations, and his glory above the heavens.
Psalm 113:5	Who is like to the LORD our God, who dwells on high,
Psalm 113:6	Who humbles himself to behold the things that are in heaven, and in the earth!
Psalm 113:7	He raises up the poor out of the dust, and lifts the needy out of the dunghill;
Psalm 113:8	That he may set him with princes, even with the princes of his people.
Psalm 113:9	He makes the barren woman to keep house, and to be a joyful mother of children. Praise you the LORD.
Psalm 114:1	When Israel went out of Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people of strange language;
Psalm 114:2	Judah was his sanctuary, and Israel his dominion.
Psalm 114:3	The sea saw it, and fled: Jordan was driven back.
Psalm 114:4	The mountains skipped like rams, and the little hills like lambs.
Psalm 114:5	What ailed you, O you sea, that you fled? you Jordan, that you were driven back?
Psalm 114:6	You mountains, that you skipped like rams; and you little hills, like lambs?
Psalm 114:7	Tremble, you earth, at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob;
Psalm 114:8	Which turned the rock into a standing water, the flint into a fountain of waters.
Psalm 115:1	Not to us, O LORD, not to us, but to your name give glory, for your mercy, and for your truth’s sake.
Psalm 115:2	Why should the heathen say, Where is now their God?
Psalm 115:3	But our God is in the heavens: he has done whatever he has pleased.
Psalm 115:4	Their idols are silver and gold, the work of men’s hands.
Psalm 115:5	They have mouths, but they speak not: eyes have they, but they see not:
Psalm 115:6	They have ears, but they hear not: noses have they, but they smell not:
Psalm 115:7	They have hands, but they handle not: feet have they, but they walk not: neither speak they through their throat.
Psalm 115:8	They that make them are like to them; so is every one that trusts in them.
Psalm 115:9	O Israel, trust you in the LORD: he is their help and their shield.
Psalm 115:10	O house of Aaron, trust in the LORD: he is their help and their shield.
Psalm 115:11	You that fear the LORD, trust in the LORD: he is their help and their shield.
Psalm 115:12	The LORD has been mindful of us: he will bless us; he will bless the house of Israel; he will bless the house of Aaron.
Psalm 115:13	He will bless them that fear the LORD, both small and great.
Psalm 115:14	The LORD shall increase you more and more, you and your children.
Psalm 115:15	You are blessed of the LORD which made heaven and earth.
Psalm 115:16	The heaven, even the heavens, are the LORD’s: but the earth has he given to the children of men.
Psalm 115:17	The dead praise not the LORD, neither any that go down into silence.
Psalm 115:18	But we will bless the LORD from this time forth and for ever more. Praise the LORD.
Psalm 116:1	I love the LORD, because he has heard my voice and my supplications.
Psalm 116:2	Because he has inclined his ear to me, therefore will I call on him as long as I live.
Psalm 116:3	The sorrows of death compassed me, and the pains of hell got hold on me: I found trouble and sorrow.
Psalm 116:4	Then called I on the name of the LORD; O LORD, I beseech you, deliver my soul.
Psalm 116:5	Gracious is the LORD, and righteous; yes, our God is merciful.
Psalm 116:6	The LORD preserves the simple: I was brought low, and he helped me.
Psalm 116:7	Return to your rest, O my soul; for the LORD has dealt bountifully with you.
Psalm 116:8	For you have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, and my feet from falling.
Psalm 116:9	I will walk before the LORD in the land of the living.
Psalm 116:10	I believed, therefore have I spoken: I was greatly afflicted:
Psalm 116:11	I said in my haste, All men are liars.
Psalm 116:12	What shall I render to the LORD for all his benefits toward me?
Psalm 116:13	I will take the cup of salvation, and call on the name of the LORD.
Psalm 116:14	I will pay my vows to the LORD now in the presence of all his people.
Psalm 116:15	Precious in the sight of the LORD is the death of his saints.
Psalm 116:16	O LORD, truly I am your servant; I am your servant, and the son of your handmaid: you have loosed my bonds.
Psalm 116:17	I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and will call on the name of the LORD.
Psalm 116:18	I will pay my vows to the LORD now in the presence of all his people.
Psalm 116:19	In the courts of the LORD’s house, in the middle of you, O Jerusalem. Praise you the LORD.
Psalm 117:1	O praise the LORD, all you nations: praise him, all you people.
Psalm 117:2	For his merciful kindness is great toward us: and the truth of the LORD endures for ever. Praise you the LORD.
Psalm 118:1	O give thanks to the LORD; for he is good: because his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 118:2	Let Israel now say, that his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 118:3	Let the house of Aaron now say, that his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 118:4	Let them now that fear the LORD say, that his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 118:5	I called on the LORD in distress: the LORD answered me, and set me in a large place.
Psalm 118:6	The LORD is on my side; I will not fear: what can man do to me?
Psalm 118:7	The LORD takes my part with them that help me: therefore shall I see my desire on them that hate me.
Psalm 118:8	It is better to trust in the LORD than to put confidence in man.
Psalm 118:9	It is better to trust in the LORD than to put confidence in princes.
Psalm 118:10	All nations compassed me about: but in the name of the LORD will I destroy them.
Psalm 118:11	They compassed me about; yes, they compassed me about: but in the name of the LORD I will destroy them.
Psalm 118:12	They compassed me about like bees: they are quenched as the fire of thorns: for in the name of the LORD I will destroy them.
Psalm 118:13	You have thrust sore at me that I might fall: but the LORD helped me.
Psalm 118:14	The LORD is my strength and song, and is become my salvation.
Psalm 118:15	The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tabernacles of the righteous: the right hand of the LORD does valiantly.
Psalm 118:16	The right hand of the LORD is exalted: the right hand of the LORD does valiantly.
Psalm 118:17	I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of the LORD.
Psalm 118:18	The LORD has chastened me sore: but he has not given me over to death.
Psalm 118:19	Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will go into them, and I will praise the LORD:
Psalm 118:20	This gate of the LORD, into which the righteous shall enter.
Psalm 118:21	I will praise you: for you have heard me, and are become my salvation.
Psalm 118:22	The stone which the builders refused is become the head stone of the corner.
Psalm 118:23	This is the LORD’s doing; it is marvelous in our eyes.
Psalm 118:24	This is the day which the LORD has made; we will rejoice and be glad in it.
Psalm 118:25	Save now, I beseech you, O LORD: O LORD, I beseech you, send now prosperity.
Psalm 118:26	Blessed be he that comes in the name of the LORD: we have blessed you out of the house of the LORD.
Psalm 118:27	God is the LORD, which has showed us light: bind the sacrifice with cords, even to the horns of the altar.
Psalm 118:28	You are my God, and I will praise you: you are my God, I will exalt you.
Psalm 118:29	O give thanks to the LORD; for he is good: for his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 119:1	Blessed are the undefiled in the way, who walk in the law of the LORD.
Psalm 119:2	Blessed are they that keep his testimonies, and that seek him with the whole heart.
Psalm 119:3	They also do no iniquity: they walk in his ways.
Psalm 119:4	You have commanded us to keep your precepts diligently.
Psalm 119:5	O that my ways were directed to keep your statutes!
Psalm 119:6	Then shall I not be ashamed, when I have respect to all your commandments.
Psalm 119:7	I will praise you with uprightness of heart, when I shall have learned your righteous judgments.
Psalm 119:8	I will keep your statutes: O forsake me not utterly.
Psalm 119:9	Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? by taking heed thereto according to your word.
Psalm 119:10	With my whole heart have I sought you: O let me not wander from your commandments.
Psalm 119:11	Your word have I hid in my heart, that I might not sin against you.
Psalm 119:12	Blessed are you, O LORD: teach me your statutes.
Psalm 119:13	With my lips have I declared all the judgments of your mouth.
Psalm 119:14	I have rejoiced in the way of your testimonies, as much as in all riches.
Psalm 119:15	I will meditate in your precepts, and have respect to your ways.
Psalm 119:16	I will delight myself in your statutes: I will not forget your word.
Psalm 119:17	Deal bountifully with your servant, that I may live, and keep your word.
Psalm 119:18	Open you my eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of your law.
Psalm 119:19	I am a stranger in the earth: hide not your commandments from me.
Psalm 119:20	My soul breaks for the longing that it has to your judgments at all times.
Psalm 119:21	You have rebuked the proud that are cursed, which do err from your commandments.
Psalm 119:22	Remove from me reproach and contempt; for I have kept your testimonies.
Psalm 119:23	Princes also did sit and speak against me: but your servant did meditate in your statutes.
Psalm 119:24	Your testimonies also are my delight and my counsellors.
Psalm 119:25	My soul sticks to the dust: quicken you me according to your word.
Psalm 119:26	I have declared my ways, and you heard me: teach me your statutes.
Psalm 119:27	Make me to understand the way of your precepts: so shall I talk of your wondrous works.
Psalm 119:28	My soul melts for heaviness: strengthen you me according to your word.
Psalm 119:29	Remove from me the way of lying: and grant me your law graciously.
Psalm 119:30	I have chosen the way of truth: your judgments have I laid before me.
Psalm 119:31	I have stuck to your testimonies: O LORD, put me not to shame.
Psalm 119:32	I will run the way of your commandments, when you shall enlarge my heart.
Psalm 119:33	Teach me, O LORD, the way of your statutes; and I shall keep it to the end.
Psalm 119:34	Give me understanding, and I shall keep your law; yes, I shall observe it with my whole heart.
Psalm 119:35	Make me to go in the path of your commandments; for therein do I delight.
Psalm 119:36	Incline my heart to your testimonies, and not to covetousness.
Psalm 119:37	Turn away my eyes from beholding vanity; and quicken you me in your way.
Psalm 119:38	Establish your word to your servant, who is devoted to your fear.
Psalm 119:39	Turn away my reproach which I fear: for your judgments are good.
Psalm 119:40	Behold, I have longed after your precepts: quicken me in your righteousness.
Psalm 119:41	Let your mercies come also to me, O LORD, even your salvation, according to your word.
Psalm 119:42	So shall I have with which to answer him that reproaches me: for I trust in your word.
Psalm 119:43	And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth; for I have hoped in your judgments.
Psalm 119:44	So shall I keep your law continually for ever and ever.
Psalm 119:45	And I will walk at liberty: for I seek your precepts.
Psalm 119:46	I will speak of your testimonies also before kings, and will not be ashamed.
Psalm 119:47	And I will delight myself in your commandments, which I have loved.
Psalm 119:48	My hands also will I lift up to your commandments, which I have loved; and I will meditate in your statutes.
Psalm 119:49	Remember the word to your servant, on which you have caused me to hope.
Psalm 119:50	This is my comfort in my affliction: for your word has quickened me.
Psalm 119:51	The proud have had me greatly in derision: yet have I not declined from your law.
Psalm 119:52	I remembered your judgments of old, O LORD; and have comforted myself.
Psalm 119:53	Horror has taken hold on me because of the wicked that forsake your law.
Psalm 119:54	Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage.
Psalm 119:55	I have remembered your name, O LORD, in the night, and have kept your law.
Psalm 119:56	This I had, because I kept your precepts.
Psalm 119:57	You are my portion, O LORD: I have said that I would keep your words.
Psalm 119:58	I entreated your favor with my whole heart: be merciful to me according to your word.
Psalm 119:59	I thought on my ways, and turned my feet to your testimonies.
Psalm 119:60	I made haste, and delayed not to keep your commandments.
Psalm 119:61	The bands of the wicked have robbed me: but I have not forgotten your law.
Psalm 119:62	At midnight I will rise to give thanks to you because of your righteous judgments.
Psalm 119:63	I am a companion of all them that fear you, and of them that keep your precepts.
Psalm 119:64	The earth, O LORD, is full of your mercy: teach me your statutes.
Psalm 119:65	You have dealt well with your servant, O LORD, according to your word.
Psalm 119:66	Teach me good judgment and knowledge: for I have believed your commandments.
Psalm 119:67	Before I was afflicted I went astray: but now have I kept your word.
Psalm 119:68	You are good, and do good; teach me your statutes.
Psalm 119:69	The proud have forged a lie against me: but I will keep your precepts with my whole heart.
Psalm 119:70	Their heart is as fat as grease; but I delight in your law.
Psalm 119:71	It is good for me that I have been afflicted; that I might learn your statutes.
Psalm 119:72	The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver.
Psalm 119:73	Your hands have made me and fashioned me: give me understanding, that I may learn your commandments.
Psalm 119:74	They that fear you will be glad when they see me; because I have hoped in your word.
Psalm 119:75	I know, O LORD, that your judgments are right, and that you in faithfulness have afflicted me.
Psalm 119:76	Let, I pray you, your merciful kindness be for my comfort, according to your word to your servant.
Psalm 119:77	Let your tender mercies come to me, that I may live: for your law is my delight.
Psalm 119:78	Let the proud be ashamed; for they dealt perversely with me without a cause: but I will meditate in your precepts.
Psalm 119:79	Let those that fear you turn to me, and those that have known your testimonies.
Psalm 119:80	Let my heart be sound in your statutes; that I be not ashamed.
Psalm 119:81	My soul faints for your salvation: but I hope in your word.
Psalm 119:82	My eyes fail for your word, saying, When will you comfort me?
Psalm 119:83	For I am become like a bottle in the smoke; yet do I not forget your statutes.
Psalm 119:84	How many are the days of your servant? when will you execute judgment on them that persecute me?
Psalm 119:85	The proud have dig pits for me, which are not after your law.
Psalm 119:86	All your commandments are faithful: they persecute me wrongfully; help you me.
Psalm 119:87	They had almost consumed me on earth; but I forsook not your precepts.
Psalm 119:88	Quicken me after your loving kindness; so shall I keep the testimony of your mouth.
Psalm 119:89	For ever, O LORD, your word is settled in heaven.
Psalm 119:90	Your faithfulness is to all generations: you have established the earth, and it stays.
Psalm 119:91	They continue this day according to your ordinances: for all are your servants.
Psalm 119:92	Unless your law had been my delights, I should then have perished in my affliction.
Psalm 119:93	I will never forget your precepts: for with them you have quickened me.
Psalm 119:94	I am yours, save me: for I have sought your precepts.
Psalm 119:95	The wicked have waited for me to destroy me: but I will consider your testimonies.
Psalm 119:96	I have seen an end of all perfection: but your commandment is exceeding broad.
Psalm 119:97	O how I love your law! it is my meditation all the day.
Psalm 119:98	You through your commandments have made me wiser than my enemies: for they are ever with me.
Psalm 119:99	I have more understanding than all my teachers: for your testimonies are my meditation.
Psalm 119:100	I understand more than the ancients, because I keep your precepts.
Psalm 119:101	I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep your word.
Psalm 119:102	I have not departed from your judgments: for you have taught me.
Psalm 119:103	How sweet are your words to my taste! yes, sweeter than honey to my mouth!
Psalm 119:104	Through your precepts I get understanding: therefore I hate every false way.
Psalm 119:105	Your word is a lamp to my feet, and a light to my path.
Psalm 119:106	I have sworn, and I will perform it, that I will keep your righteous judgments.
Psalm 119:107	I am afflicted very much: quicken me, O LORD, according to your word.
Psalm 119:108	Accept, I beseech you, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O LORD, and teach me your judgments.
Psalm 119:109	My soul is continually in my hand: yet do I not forget your law.
Psalm 119:110	The wicked have laid a snare for me: yet I erred not from your precepts.
Psalm 119:111	Your testimonies have I taken as an heritage for ever: for they are the rejoicing of my heart.
Psalm 119:112	I have inclined my heart to perform your statutes always, even to the end.
Psalm 119:113	I hate vain thoughts: but your law do I love.
Psalm 119:114	You are my hiding place and my shield: I hope in your word.
Psalm 119:115	Depart from me, you evildoers: for I will keep the commandments of my God.
Psalm 119:116	Uphold me according to your word, that I may live: and let me not be ashamed of my hope.
Psalm 119:117	Hold you me up, and I shall be safe: and I will have respect to your statutes continually.
Psalm 119:118	You have trodden down all them that err from your statutes: for their deceit is falsehood.
Psalm 119:119	You put away all the wicked of the earth like dross: therefore I love your testimonies.
Psalm 119:120	My flesh trembles for fear of you; and I am afraid of your judgments.
Psalm 119:121	I have done judgment and justice: leave me not to my oppressors.
Psalm 119:122	Be surety for your servant for good: let not the proud oppress me.
Psalm 119:123	My eyes fail for your salvation, and for the word of your righteousness.
Psalm 119:124	Deal with your servant according to your mercy, and teach me your statutes.
Psalm 119:125	I am your servant; give me understanding, that I may know your testimonies.
Psalm 119:126	It is time for you, LORD, to work: for they have made void your law.
Psalm 119:127	Therefore I love your commandments above gold; yes, above fine gold.
Psalm 119:128	Therefore I esteem all your precepts concerning all things to be right; and I hate every false way.
Psalm 119:129	Your testimonies are wonderful: therefore does my soul keep them.
Psalm 119:130	The entrance of your words gives light; it gives understanding to the simple.
Psalm 119:131	I opened my mouth, and panted: for I longed for your commandments.
Psalm 119:132	Look you on me, and be merciful to me, as you use to do to those that love your name.
Psalm 119:133	Order my steps in your word: and let not any iniquity have dominion over me.
Psalm 119:134	Deliver me from the oppression of man: so will I keep your precepts.
Psalm 119:135	Make your face to shine on your servant; and teach me your statutes.
Psalm 119:136	Rivers of waters run down my eyes, because they keep not your law.
Psalm 119:137	Righteous are you, O LORD, and upright are your judgments.
Psalm 119:138	Your testimonies that you have commanded are righteous and very faithful.
Psalm 119:139	My zeal has consumed me, because my enemies have forgotten your words.
Psalm 119:140	Your word is very pure: therefore your servant loves it.
Psalm 119:141	I am small and despised: yet do not I forget your precepts.
Psalm 119:142	Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and your law is the truth.
Psalm 119:143	Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me: yet your commandments are my delights.
Psalm 119:144	The righteousness of your testimonies is everlasting: give me understanding, and I shall live.
Psalm 119:145	I cried with my whole heart; hear me, O LORD: I will keep your statutes.
Psalm 119:146	I cried to you; save me, and I shall keep your testimonies.
Psalm 119:147	I prevented the dawning of the morning, and cried: I hoped in your word.
Psalm 119:148	My eyes prevent the night watches, that I might meditate in your word.
Psalm 119:149	Hear my voice according to your loving kindness: O LORD, quicken me according to your judgment.
Psalm 119:150	They draw near that follow after mischief: they are far from your law.
Psalm 119:151	You are near, O LORD; and all your commandments are truth.
Psalm 119:152	Concerning your testimonies, I have known of old that you have founded them for ever.
Psalm 119:153	Consider my affliction, and deliver me: for I do not forget your law.
Psalm 119:154	Plead my cause, and deliver me: quicken me according to your word.
Psalm 119:155	Salvation is far from the wicked: for they seek not your statutes.
Psalm 119:156	Great are your tender mercies, O LORD: quicken me according to your judgments.
Psalm 119:157	Many are my persecutors and my enemies; yet do I not decline from your testimonies.
Psalm 119:158	I beheld the transgressors, and was grieved; because they kept not your word.
Psalm 119:159	Consider how I love your precepts: quicken me, O LORD, according to your loving kindness.
Psalm 119:160	Your word is true from the beginning: and every one of your righteous judgments endures for ever.
Psalm 119:161	Princes have persecuted me without a cause: but my heart stands in awe of your word.
Psalm 119:162	I rejoice at your word, as one that finds great spoil.
Psalm 119:163	I hate and abhor lying: but your law do I love.
Psalm 119:164	Seven times a day do I praise you because of your righteous judgments.
Psalm 119:165	Great peace have they which love your law: and nothing shall offend them.
Psalm 119:166	LORD, I have hoped for your salvation, and done your commandments.
Psalm 119:167	My soul has kept your testimonies; and I love them exceedingly.
Psalm 119:168	I have kept your precepts and your testimonies: for all my ways are before you.
Psalm 119:169	Let my cry come near before you, O LORD: give me understanding according to your word.
Psalm 119:170	Let my supplication come before you: deliver me according to your word.
Psalm 119:171	My lips shall utter praise, when you have taught me your statutes.
Psalm 119:172	My tongue shall speak of your word: for all your commandments are righteousness.
Psalm 119:173	Let your hand help me; for I have chosen your precepts.
Psalm 119:174	I have longed for your salvation, O LORD; and your law is my delight.
Psalm 119:175	Let my soul live, and it shall praise you; and let your judgments help me.
Psalm 119:176	I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek your servant; for I do not forget your commandments.
Psalm 120:1	In my distress I cried to the LORD, and he heard me.
Psalm 120:2	Deliver my soul, O LORD, from lying lips, and from a deceitful tongue.
Psalm 120:3	What shall be given to you? or what shall be done to you, you false tongue?
Psalm 120:4	Sharp arrows of the mighty, with coals of juniper.
Psalm 120:5	Woe is me, that I sojourn in Mesech, that I dwell in the tents of Kedar!
Psalm 120:6	My soul has long dwelled with him that hates peace.
Psalm 120:7	I am for peace: but when I speak, they are for war.
Psalm 121:1	I will lift up my eyes to the hills, from where comes my help.
Psalm 121:2	My help comes from the LORD, which made heaven and earth.
Psalm 121:3	He will not suffer your foot to be moved: he that keeps you will not slumber.
Psalm 121:4	Behold, he that keeps Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep.
Psalm 121:5	The LORD is your keeper: the LORD is your shade on your right hand.
Psalm 121:6	The sun shall not smite you by day, nor the moon by night.
Psalm 121:7	The LORD shall preserve you from all evil: he shall preserve your soul.
Psalm 121:8	The LORD shall preserve your going out and your coming in from this time forth, and even for ever more.
Psalm 122:1	I was glad when they said to me, Let us go into the house of the LORD.
Psalm 122:2	Our feet shall stand within your gates, O Jerusalem.
Psalm 122:3	Jerusalem is built as a city that is compact together:
Psalm 122:4	Where the tribes go up, the tribes of the LORD, to the testimony of Israel, to give thanks to the name of the LORD.
Psalm 122:5	For there are set thrones of judgment, the thrones of the house of David.
Psalm 122:6	Pray for the peace of Jerusalem: they shall prosper that love you.
Psalm 122:7	Peace be within your walls, and prosperity within your palaces.
Psalm 122:8	For my brothers and companions’ sakes, I will now say, Peace be within you.
Psalm 122:9	Because of the house of the LORD our God I will seek your good.
Psalm 123:1	To you lift I up my eyes, O you that dwell in the heavens.
Psalm 123:2	Behold, as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their masters, and as the eyes of a maiden to the hand of her mistress; so our eyes wait on the LORD our God, until that he have mercy on us.
Psalm 123:3	Have mercy on us, O LORD, have mercy on us: for we are exceedingly filled with contempt.
Psalm 123:4	Our soul is exceedingly filled with the scorning of those that are at ease, and with the contempt of the proud.
Psalm 124:1	If it had not been the LORD who was on our side, now may Israel say;
Psalm 124:2	If it had not been the LORD who was on our side, when men rose up against us:
Psalm 124:3	Then they had swallowed us up quick, when their wrath was kindled against us:
Psalm 124:4	Then the waters had overwhelmed us, the stream had gone over our soul:
Psalm 124:5	Then the proud waters had gone over our soul.
Psalm 124:6	Blessed be the LORD, who has not given us as a prey to their teeth.
Psalm 124:7	Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers: the snare is broken, and we are escaped.
Psalm 124:8	Our help is in the name of the LORD, who made heaven and earth.
Psalm 125:1	They that trust in the LORD shall be as mount Zion, which cannot be removed, but stays for ever.
Psalm 125:2	As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the LORD is round about his people from now on even for ever.
Psalm 125:3	For the rod of the wicked shall not rest on the lot of the righteous; lest the righteous put forth their hands to iniquity.
Psalm 125:4	Do good, O LORD, to those that be good, and to them that are upright in their hearts.
Psalm 125:5	As for such as turn aside to their crooked ways, the LORD shall lead them forth with the workers of iniquity: but peace shall be on Israel.
Psalm 126:1	When the LORD turned again the captivity of Zion, we were like them that dream.
Psalm 126:2	Then was our mouth filled with laughter, and our tongue with singing: then said they among the heathen, The LORD has done great things for them.
Psalm 126:3	The LORD has done great things for us; whereof we are glad.
Psalm 126:4	Turn again our captivity, O LORD, as the streams in the south.
Psalm 126:5	They that sow in tears shall reap in joy.
Psalm 126:6	He that goes forth and weeps, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him.
Psalm 127:1	Except the LORD build the house, they labor in vain that build it: except the LORD keep the city, the watchman wakes but in vain.
Psalm 127:2	It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrows: for so he gives his beloved sleep.
Psalm 127:3	See, children are an heritage of the LORD: and the fruit of the womb is his reward.
Psalm 127:4	As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man; so are children of the youth.
Psalm 127:5	Happy is the man that has his quiver full of them: they shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate.
Psalm 128:1	Blessed is every one that fears the LORD; that walks in his ways.
Psalm 128:2	For you shall eat the labor of your hands: happy shall you be, and it shall be well with you.
Psalm 128:3	Your wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of your house: your children like olive plants round about your table.
Psalm 128:4	Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed that fears the LORD.
Psalm 128:5	The LORD shall bless you out of Zion: and you shall see the good of Jerusalem all the days of your life.
Psalm 128:6	Yes, you shall see your children’s children, and peace on Israel.
Psalm 129:1	Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth, may Israel now say:
Psalm 129:2	Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth: yet they have not prevailed against me.
Psalm 129:3	The plowers plowed on my back: they made long their furrows.
Psalm 129:4	The LORD is righteous: he has cut asunder the cords of the wicked.
Psalm 129:5	Let them all be confounded and turned back that hate Zion.
Psalm 129:6	Let them be as the grass on the housetops, which wither before it grows up:
Psalm 129:7	With which the mower fills not his hand; nor he that binds sheaves his bosom.
Psalm 129:8	Neither do they which go by say, The blessing of the LORD be on you: we bless you in the name of the LORD.
Psalm 130:1	Out of the depths have I cried to you, O LORD.
Psalm 130:2	Lord, hear my voice: let your ears be attentive to the voice of my supplications.
Psalm 130:3	If you, LORD, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand?
Psalm 130:4	But there is forgiveness with you, that you may be feared.
Psalm 130:5	I wait for the LORD, my soul does wait, and in his word do I hope.
Psalm 130:6	My soul waits for the Lord more than they that watch for the morning: I say, more than they that watch for the morning.
Psalm 130:7	Let Israel hope in the LORD: for with the LORD there is mercy, and with him is plenteous redemption.
Psalm 130:8	And he shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities.
Psalm 131:1	Lord, my heart is not haughty, nor my eyes lofty: neither do I exercise myself in great matters, or in things too high for me.
Psalm 131:2	Surely I have behaved and quieted myself, as a child that is weaned of his mother: my soul is even as a weaned child.
Psalm 131:3	Let Israel hope in the LORD from now on and for ever.
Psalm 132:1	Lord, remember David, and all his afflictions:
Psalm 132:2	How he swore to the LORD, and vowed to the mighty God of Jacob;
Psalm 132:3	Surely I will not come into the tabernacle of my house, nor go up into my bed;
Psalm 132:4	I will not give sleep to my eyes, or slumber to my eyelids,
Psalm 132:5	Until I find out a place for the LORD, an habitation for the mighty God of Jacob.
Psalm 132:6	See, we heard of it at Ephratah: we found it in the fields of the wood.
Psalm 132:7	We will go into his tabernacles: we will worship at his footstool.
Psalm 132:8	Arise, O LORD, into your rest; you, and the ark of your strength.
Psalm 132:9	Let your priests be clothed with righteousness; and let your saints shout for joy.
Psalm 132:10	For your servant David’s sake turn not away the face of your anointed.
Psalm 132:11	The LORD has sworn in truth to David; he will not turn from it; Of the fruit of your body will I set on your throne.
Psalm 132:12	If your children will keep my covenant and my testimony that I shall teach them, their children shall also sit on your throne for ever more.
Psalm 132:13	For the LORD has chosen Zion; he has desired it for his habitation.
Psalm 132:14	This is my rest for ever: here will I dwell; for I have desired it.
Psalm 132:15	I will abundantly bless her provision: I will satisfy her poor with bread.
Psalm 132:16	I will also clothe her priests with salvation: and her saints shall shout aloud for joy.
Psalm 132:17	There will I make the horn of David to bud: I have ordained a lamp for my anointed.
Psalm 132:18	His enemies will I clothe with shame: but on himself shall his crown flourish.
Psalm 133:1	Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brothers to dwell together in unity!
Psalm 133:2	It is like the precious ointment on the head, that ran down on the beard, even Aaron’s beard: that went down to the skirts of his garments;
Psalm 133:3	As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended on the mountains of Zion: for there the LORD commanded the blessing, even life for ever more.
Psalm 134:1	Behold, bless you the LORD, all you servants of the LORD, which by night stand in the house of the LORD.
Psalm 134:2	Lift up your hands in the sanctuary, and bless the LORD.
Psalm 134:3	The LORD that made heaven and earth bless you out of Zion.
Psalm 135:1	Praise you the LORD. Praise you the name of the LORD; praise him, O you servants of the LORD.
Psalm 135:2	You that stand in the house of the LORD, in the courts of the house of our God.
Psalm 135:3	Praise the LORD; for the LORD is good: sing praises to his name; for it is pleasant.
Psalm 135:4	For the LORD has chosen Jacob to himself, and Israel for his peculiar treasure.
Psalm 135:5	For I know that the LORD is great, and that our Lord is above all gods.
Psalm 135:6	Whatever the LORD pleased, that did he in heaven, and in earth, in the seas, and all deep places.
Psalm 135:7	He causes the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth; he makes lightning for the rain; he brings the wind out of his treasuries.
Psalm 135:8	Who smote the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and beast.
Psalm 135:9	Who sent tokens and wonders into the middle of you, O Egypt, on Pharaoh, and on all his servants.
Psalm 135:10	Who smote great nations, and slew mighty kings;
Psalm 135:11	Sihon king of the Amorites, and Og king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan:
Psalm 135:12	And gave their land for an heritage, an heritage to Israel his people.
Psalm 135:13	Your name, O LORD, endures for ever; and your memorial, O LORD, throughout all generations.
Psalm 135:14	For the LORD will judge his people, and he will repent himself concerning his servants.
Psalm 135:15	The idols of the heathen are silver and gold, the work of men’s hands.
Psalm 135:16	They have mouths, but they speak not; eyes have they, but they see not;
Psalm 135:17	They have ears, but they hear not; neither is there any breath in their mouths.
Psalm 135:18	They that make them are like to them: so is every one that trusts in them.
Psalm 135:19	Bless the LORD, O house of Israel: bless the LORD, O house of Aaron:
Psalm 135:20	Bless the LORD, O house of Levi: you that fear the LORD, bless the LORD.
Psalm 135:21	Blessed be the LORD out of Zion, which dwells at Jerusalem. Praise you the LORD.
Psalm 136:1	O give thanks to the LORD; for he is good: for his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 136:2	O give thanks to the God of gods: for his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 136:3	O give thanks to the Lord of lords: for his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 136:4	To him who alone does great wonders: for his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 136:5	To him that by wisdom made the heavens: for his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 136:6	To him that stretched out the earth above the waters: for his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 136:7	To him that made great lights: for his mercy endures for ever:
Psalm 136:8	The sun to rule by day: for his mercy endures for ever:
Psalm 136:9	The moon and stars to rule by night: for his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 136:10	To him that smote Egypt in their firstborn: for his mercy endures for ever:
Psalm 136:11	And brought out Israel from among them: for his mercy endures for ever:
Psalm 136:12	With a strong hand, and with a stretched out arm: for his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 136:13	To him which divided the Red sea into parts: for his mercy endures for ever:
Psalm 136:14	And made Israel to pass through the middle of it: for his mercy endures for ever:
Psalm 136:15	But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red sea: for his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 136:16	To him which led his people through the wilderness: for his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 136:17	To him which smote great kings: for his mercy endures for ever:
Psalm 136:18	And slew famous kings: for his mercy endures for ever:
Psalm 136:19	Sihon king of the Amorites: for his mercy endures for ever:
Psalm 136:20	And Og the king of Bashan: for his mercy endures for ever:
Psalm 136:21	And gave their land for an heritage: for his mercy endures for ever:
Psalm 136:22	Even an heritage to Israel his servant: for his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 136:23	Who remembered us in our low estate: for his mercy endures for ever:
Psalm 136:24	And has redeemed us from our enemies: for his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 136:25	Who gives food to all flesh: for his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 136:26	O give thanks to the God of heaven: for his mercy endures for ever.
Psalm 137:1	By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down, yes, we wept, when we remembered Zion.
Psalm 137:2	We hanged our harps on the willows in the middle thereof.
Psalm 137:3	For there they that carried us away captive required of us a song; and they that wasted us required of us mirth, saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zion.
Psalm 137:4	How shall we sing the LORD’s song in a strange land?
Psalm 137:5	If I forget you, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her cunning.
Psalm 137:6	If I do not remember you, let my tongue stick to the roof of my mouth; if I prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy.
Psalm 137:7	Remember, O LORD, the children of Edom in the day of Jerusalem; who said, Raze it, raze it, even to the foundation thereof.
Psalm 137:8	O daughter of Babylon, who are to be destroyed; happy shall he be, that rewards you as you have served us.
Psalm 137:9	Happy shall he be, that takes and dashes your little ones against the stones.
Psalm 138:1	I will praise you with my whole heart: before the gods will I sing praise to you.
Psalm 138:2	I will worship toward your holy temple, and praise your name for your loving kindness and for your truth: for you have magnified your word above all your name.
Psalm 138:3	In the day when I cried you answered me, and strengthened me with strength in my soul.
Psalm 138:4	All the kings of the earth shall praise you, O LORD, when they hear the words of your mouth.
Psalm 138:5	Yes, they shall sing in the ways of the LORD: for great is the glory of the LORD.
Psalm 138:6	Though the LORD be high, yet has he respect to the lowly: but the proud he knows afar off.
Psalm 138:7	Though I walk in the middle of trouble, you will revive me: you shall stretch forth your hand against the wrath of my enemies, and your right hand shall save me.
Psalm 138:8	The LORD will perfect that which concerns me: your mercy, O LORD, endures for ever: forsake not the works of your own hands.
Psalm 139:1	O lord, you have searched me, and known me.
Psalm 139:2	You know my sitting down and my rising up, you understand my thought afar off.
Psalm 139:3	You compass my path and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways.
Psalm 139:4	For there is not a word in my tongue, but, see, O LORD, you know it altogether.
Psalm 139:5	You have beset me behind and before, and laid your hand on me.
Psalm 139:6	Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot attain to it.
Psalm 139:7	Where shall I go from your spirit? or where shall I flee from your presence?
Psalm 139:8	If I ascend up into heaven, you are there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, you are there.
Psalm 139:9	If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea;
Psalm 139:10	Even there shall your hand lead me, and your right hand shall hold me.
Psalm 139:11	If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me; even the night shall be light about me.
Psalm 139:12	Yes, the darkness hides not from you; but the night shines as the day: the darkness and the light are both alike to you.
Psalm 139:13	For you have possessed my reins: you have covered me in my mother’s womb.
Psalm 139:14	I will praise you; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made: marvelous are your works; and that my soul knows right well.
Psalm 139:15	My substance was not hid from you, when I was made in secret, and curiously worked in the lowest parts of the earth.
Psalm 139:16	Your eyes did see my substance, yet being imperfect; and in your book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them.
Psalm 139:17	How precious also are your thoughts to me, O God! how great is the sum of them!
Psalm 139:18	If I should count them, they are more in number than the sand: when I awake, I am still with you.
Psalm 139:19	Surely you will slay the wicked, O God: depart from me therefore, you bloody men.
Psalm 139:20	For they speak against you wickedly, and your enemies take your name in vain.
Psalm 139:21	Do not I hate them, O LORD, that hate you? and am not I grieved with those that rise up against you?
Psalm 139:22	I hate them with perfect hatred: I count them my enemies.
Psalm 139:23	Search me, O God, and know my heart: try me, and know my thoughts:
Psalm 139:24	And see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting.
Psalm 140:1	Deliver me, O LORD, from the evil man: preserve me from the violent man;
Psalm 140:2	Which imagine mischiefs in their heart; continually are they gathered together for war.
Psalm 140:3	They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent; adders’ poison is under their lips. Selah.
Psalm 140:4	Keep me, O LORD, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from the violent man; who have purposed to overthrow my goings.
Psalm 140:5	The proud have hid a snare for me, and cords; they have spread a net by the wayside; they have set gins for me. Selah.
Psalm 140:6	I said to the LORD, You are my God: hear the voice of my supplications, O LORD.
Psalm 140:7	O GOD the Lord, the strength of my salvation, you have covered my head in the day of battle.
Psalm 140:8	Grant not, O LORD, the desires of the wicked: further not his wicked device; lest they exalt themselves. Selah.
Psalm 140:9	As for the head of those that compass me about, let the mischief of their own lips cover them.
Psalm 140:10	Let burning coals fall on them: let them be cast into the fire; into deep pits, that they rise not up again.
Psalm 140:11	Let not an evil speaker be established in the earth: evil shall hunt the violent man to overthrow him.
Psalm 140:12	I know that the LORD will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and the right of the poor.
Psalm 140:13	Surely the righteous shall give thanks to your name: the upright shall dwell in your presence.
Psalm 141:1	Lord, I cry to you: make haste to me; give ear to my voice, when I cry to you.
Psalm 141:2	Let my prayer be set forth before you as incense; and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice.
Psalm 141:3	Set a watch, O LORD, before my mouth; keep the door of my lips.
Psalm 141:4	Incline not my heart to any evil thing, to practice wicked works with men that work iniquity: and let me not eat of their dainties.
Psalm 141:5	Let the righteous smite me; it shall be a kindness: and let him reprove me; it shall be an excellent oil, which shall not break my head: for yet my prayer also shall be in their calamities.
Psalm 141:6	When their judges are overthrown in stony places, they shall hear my words; for they are sweet.
Psalm 141:7	Our bones are scattered at the grave’s mouth, as when one cuts and splits wood on the earth.
Psalm 141:8	But my eyes are to you, O GOD the Lord: in you is my trust; leave not my soul destitute.
Psalm 141:9	Keep me from the snares which they have laid for me, and the gins of the workers of iniquity.
Psalm 141:10	Let the wicked fall into their own nets, whilst that I with escape.
Psalm 142:1	I cried to the LORD with my voice; with my voice to the LORD did I make my supplication.
Psalm 142:2	I poured out my complaint before him; I showed before him my trouble.
Psalm 142:3	When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, then you knew my path. In the way wherein I walked have they privately laid a snare for me.
Psalm 142:4	I looked on my right hand, and beheld, but there was no man that would know me: refuge failed me; no man cared for my soul.
Psalm 142:5	I cried to you, O LORD: I said, You are my refuge and my portion in the land of the living.
Psalm 142:6	Attend to my cry; for I am brought very low: deliver me from my persecutors; for they are stronger than I.
Psalm 142:7	Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise your name: the righteous shall compass me about; for you shall deal bountifully with me.
Psalm 143:1	Hear my prayer, O LORD, give ear to my supplications: in your faithfulness answer me, and in your righteousness.
Psalm 143:2	And enter not into judgment with your servant: for in your sight shall no man living be justified.
Psalm 143:3	For the enemy has persecuted my soul; he has smitten my life down to the ground; he has made me to dwell in darkness, as those that have been long dead.
Psalm 143:4	Therefore is my spirit overwhelmed within me; my heart within me is desolate.
Psalm 143:5	I remember the days of old; I meditate on all your works; I muse on the work of your hands.
Psalm 143:6	I stretch forth my hands to you: my soul thirsts after you, as a thirsty land. Selah.
Psalm 143:7	Hear me speedily, O LORD: my spirit fails: hide not your face from me, lest I be like to them that go down into the pit.
Psalm 143:8	Cause me to hear your loving kindness in the morning; for in you do I trust: cause me to know the way wherein I should walk; for I lift up my soul to you.
Psalm 143:9	Deliver me, O LORD, from my enemies: I flee to you to hide me.
Psalm 143:10	Teach me to do your will; for you are my God: your spirit is good; lead me into the land of uprightness.
Psalm 143:11	Quicken me, O LORD, for your name’s sake: for your righteousness’ sake bring my soul out of trouble.
Psalm 143:12	And of your mercy cut off my enemies, and destroy all them that afflict my soul: for I am your servant.
Psalm 144:1	Blessed be the LORD my strength which teaches my hands to war, and my fingers to fight:
Psalm 144:2	My goodness, and my fortress; my high tower, and my deliverer; my shield, and he in whom I trust; who subdues my people under me.
Psalm 144:3	LORD, what is man, that you take knowledge of him! or the son of man, that you make account of him!
Psalm 144:4	Man is like to vanity: his days are as a shadow that passes away.
Psalm 144:5	Bow your heavens, O LORD, and come down: touch the mountains, and they shall smoke.
Psalm 144:6	Cast forth lightning, and scatter them: shoot out your arrows, and destroy them.
Psalm 144:7	Send your hand from above; rid me, and deliver me out of great waters, from the hand of strange children;
Psalm 144:8	Whose mouth speaks vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of falsehood.
Psalm 144:9	I will sing a new song to you, O God: on a psaltery and an instrument of ten strings will I sing praises to you.
Psalm 144:10	It is he that gives salvation to kings: who delivers David his servant from the hurtful sword.
Psalm 144:11	Rid me, and deliver me from the hand of strange children, whose mouth speaks vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of falsehood:
Psalm 144:12	That our sons may be as plants grown up in their youth; that our daughters may be as corner stones, polished after the similitude of a palace:
Psalm 144:13	That our garners may be full, affording all manner of store: that our sheep may bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our streets:
Psalm 144:14	That our oxen may be strong to labor; that there be no breaking in, nor going out; that there be no complaining in our streets.
Psalm 144:15	Happy is that people, that is in such a case: yes, happy is that people, whose God is the LORD.
Psalm 145:1	I will extol you, my God, O king; and I will bless your name for ever and ever.
Psalm 145:2	Every day will I bless you; and I will praise your name for ever and ever.
Psalm 145:3	Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised; and his greatness is unsearchable.
Psalm 145:4	One generation shall praise your works to another, and shall declare your mighty acts.
Psalm 145:5	I will speak of the glorious honor of your majesty, and of your wondrous works.
Psalm 145:6	And men shall speak of the might of your terrible acts: and I will declare your greatness.
Psalm 145:7	They shall abundantly utter the memory of your great goodness, and shall sing of your righteousness.
Psalm 145:8	The LORD is gracious, and full of compassion; slow to anger, and of great mercy.
Psalm 145:9	The LORD is good to all: and his tender mercies are over all his works.
Psalm 145:10	All your works shall praise you, O LORD; and your saints shall bless you.
Psalm 145:11	They shall speak of the glory of your kingdom, and talk of your power;
Psalm 145:12	To make known to the sons of men his mighty acts, and the glorious majesty of his kingdom.
Psalm 145:13	Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and your dominion endures throughout all generations.
Psalm 145:14	The LORD upholds all that fall, and raises up all those that be bowed down.
Psalm 145:15	The eyes of all wait on you; and you give them their meat in due season.
Psalm 145:16	You open your hand, and satisfy the desire of every living thing.
Psalm 145:17	The LORD is righteous in all his ways, and holy in all his works.
Psalm 145:18	The LORD is near to all them that call on him, to all that call on him in truth.
Psalm 145:19	He will fulfill the desire of them that fear him: he also will hear their cry, and will save them.
Psalm 145:20	The LORD preserves all them that love him: but all the wicked will he destroy.
Psalm 145:21	My mouth shall speak the praise of the LORD: and let all flesh bless his holy name for ever and ever.
Psalm 146:1	Praise you the LORD. Praise the LORD, O my soul.
Psalm 146:2	While I live will I praise the LORD: I will sing praises to my God while I have any being.
Psalm 146:3	Put not your trust in princes, nor in the son of man, in whom there is no help.
Psalm 146:4	His breath goes forth, he returns to his earth; in that very day his thoughts perish.
Psalm 146:5	Happy is he that has the God of Jacob for his help, whose hope is in the LORD his God:
Psalm 146:6	Which made heaven, and earth, the sea, and all that therein is: which keeps truth for ever:
Psalm 146:7	Which executes judgment for the oppressed: which gives food to the hungry. The LORD looses the prisoners:
Psalm 146:8	The LORD opens the eyes of the blind: the LORD raises them that are bowed down: the LORD loves the righteous:
Psalm 146:9	The LORD preserves the strangers; he relieves the fatherless and widow: but the way of the wicked he turns upside down.
Psalm 146:10	The LORD shall reign for ever, even your God, O Zion, to all generations. Praise you the LORD.
Psalm 147:1	Praise you the LORD: for it is good to sing praises to our God; for it is pleasant; and praise is comely.
Psalm 147:2	The LORD does build up Jerusalem: he gathers together the outcasts of Israel.
Psalm 147:3	He heals the broken in heart, and binds up their wounds.
Psalm 147:4	He tells the number of the stars; he calls them all by their names.
Psalm 147:5	Great is our Lord, and of great power: his understanding is infinite.
Psalm 147:6	The LORD lifts up the meek: he casts the wicked down to the ground.
Psalm 147:7	Sing to the LORD with thanksgiving; sing praise on the harp to our God:
Psalm 147:8	Who covers the heaven with clouds, who prepares rain for the earth, who makes grass to grow on the mountains.
Psalm 147:9	He gives to the beast his food, and to the young ravens which cry.
Psalm 147:10	He delights not in the strength of the horse: he takes not pleasure in the legs of a man.
Psalm 147:11	The LORD takes pleasure in them that fear him, in those that hope in his mercy.
Psalm 147:12	Praise the LORD, O Jerusalem; praise your God, O Zion.
Psalm 147:13	For he has strengthened the bars of your gates; he has blessed your children within you.
Psalm 147:14	He makes peace in your borders, and fills you with the finest of the wheat.
Psalm 147:15	He sends forth his commandment on earth: his word runs very swiftly.
Psalm 147:16	He gives snow like wool: he scatters the hoarfrost like ashes.
Psalm 147:17	He casts forth his ice like morsels: who can stand before his cold?
Psalm 147:18	He sends out his word, and melts them: he causes his wind to blow, and the waters flow.
Psalm 147:19	He shows his word to Jacob, his statutes and his judgments to Israel.
Psalm 147:20	He has not dealt so with any nation: and as for his judgments, they have not known them. Praise you the LORD.
Psalm 148:1	Praise you the LORD. Praise you the LORD from the heavens: praise him in the heights.
Psalm 148:2	Praise you him, all his angels: praise you him, all his hosts.
Psalm 148:3	Praise you him, sun and moon: praise him, all you stars of light.
Psalm 148:4	Praise him, you heavens of heavens, and you waters that be above the heavens.
Psalm 148:5	Let them praise the name of the LORD: for he commanded, and they were created.
Psalm 148:6	He has also established them for ever and ever: he has made a decree which shall not pass.
Psalm 148:7	Praise the LORD from the earth, you dragons, and all deeps:
Psalm 148:8	Fire, and hail; snow, and vapors; stormy wind fulfilling his word:
Psalm 148:9	Mountains, and all hills; fruitful trees, and all cedars:
Psalm 148:10	Beasts, and all cattle; creeping things, and flying fowl:
Psalm 148:11	Kings of the earth, and all people; princes, and all judges of the earth:
Psalm 148:12	Both young men, and maidens; old men, and children:
Psalm 148:13	Let them praise the name of the LORD: for his name alone is excellent; his glory is above the earth and heaven.
Psalm 148:14	He also exalts the horn of his people, the praise of all his saints; even of the children of Israel, a people near to him. Praise you the LORD.
Psalm 149:1	Praise you the LORD. Sing to the LORD a new song, and his praise in the congregation of saints.
Psalm 149:2	Let Israel rejoice in him that made him: let the children of Zion be joyful in their King.
Psalm 149:3	Let them praise his name in the dance: let them sing praises to him with the tambourine and harp.
Psalm 149:4	For the LORD takes pleasure in his people: he will beautify the meek with salvation.
Psalm 149:5	Let the saints be joyful in glory: let them sing aloud on their beds.
Psalm 149:6	Let the high praises of God be in their mouth, and a two-edged sword in their hand;
Psalm 149:7	To execute vengeance on the heathen, and punishments on the people;
Psalm 149:8	To bind their kings with chains, and their nobles with fetters of iron;
Psalm 149:9	To execute on them the judgment written: this honor have all his saints. Praise you the LORD.
Psalm 150:1	Praise you the LORD. Praise God in his sanctuary: praise him in the firmament of his power.
Psalm 150:2	Praise him for his mighty acts: praise him according to his excellent greatness.
Psalm 150:3	Praise him with the sound of the trumpet: praise him with the psaltery and harp.
Psalm 150:4	Praise him with the tambourine and dance: praise him with stringed instruments and organs.
Psalm 150:5	Praise him on the loud cymbals: praise him on the high sounding cymbals.
Psalm 150:6	Let every thing that has breath praise the LORD. Praise you the LORD.