1	Simon Peter, servant and sent of Jesus Christ, to them having received by inheritance equally honoured faith with us in the justice of our God and Saviour Jesus Christ:
2	May grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God, and of Jesus our Lord,
3	As his divine power having bestowed upon us all things which for life and devotion, by the knowledge of him having called us by glory and fitness:
4	(By which the greatest and precious promises are bestowed upon us: that by these ye might be having escaped from the corruption in the world through eager desires.)
5	And also this same, having brought in at the side all earnestness, furnish in addition in your faith fitness; and In fitness knowledge;
6	And in knowledge self-control; and in self-control patience; and in patience devotion;
7	And in devotion brotherly love; and in brotherly love, love.
8	For these being to you, and abounding, they establish you not without effort, neither unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
9	For in whom these are not present, he is blind, being affected with shortness of sight, having taken forgetfulness of the cleansing formerly of his sins.
10	Wherefore rather, brethren, be earnest to have your calling and selection made firm: for doing these, ye should not once stumble:
11	For so shall an entrance be furnished richly to you in addition into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.
12	Wherefore I will not neglect to remind you always of these things, though having known, and being supported in the present truth.
13	And I deem just, in as far as I am in this tent, to arouse you by putting in mind;
14	Knowing that the laying aside of my tent is swift; as also our Lord Jesus Christ manifested to me.
15	And I shall also be earnest for you always to have, after my exit, this putting in mind to be done.
16	For not having followed ingeniously contrived fictions, we made known to you the power and presence of our Lord Jesus Christ, but having been spectators of his majesty.
17	For having received from God the Father honour and glory, and such a voice brought to him from the magnificent glory, This is my dearly beloved Son, in whom I was contented.
18	And this voice brought from heaven we heard, being with him in the holy mountain.
19	And we have the prophetic word more firm; which holding to, ye do well, as to a light shining in a dusty place, even till the day shine through, and the morning star spring up in your hearts:
20	Knowing this first, that every prophecy of the writing is not of private solution.
21	For prophecy was not once brought by the will of man: but holy men of God spake, being moved by the Holy Spirit.