1	Thou shalt not rejoice, O Israel; exult not as the peoples: for thou didst commit fornication from thy God; thou didst love a gift upon all the threshing-floors of grain.
2	The threshing-floor and the winepress shall not feed them, and the new wine shall fail in her.
3	They shall not dwell in the land of Jehovah; and Ephraim turned back to Egypt, and in Assur they shall eat the unclean thing.
4	They shall not pour out wine to Jehovah, and they shall not be pleasant to him: their sacrifices as the bread of sorrows to them; all eating it shall be defiled: for their bread for their soul shall not come in to the house of Jehovah.
5	What will ye do for the day of appointment, and for the day of the festival of Jehovah?
6	For behold, they went from destruction: Egypt shall gather them together; Memphis shall bury them: the desire for their silver, the prickly weed shall possess them: the thorn in their tents.
7	The days of oversight came, the days of recompense came; Israel knew: the prophet is foolish, the man of the spirit, raving, for the multitude of thine iniquity and great destruction.
8	The watchman of Ephraim with God: the prophet the snare of a fowler upon all his ways; destruction in the house of his God.
9	They made deep, they were corrupted as the days of the hill: he will remember their iniquity, he will review their sins.
10	I found Israel as grapes in the desert; as the first fruit in the fig tree in her beginning I saw your fathers: they went to Baal-Peor, and they will separate themselves to shame, and their abominable things will be according to their love.
11	Ephraim shall fly away as a bird, their glory of birth and of the womb and of conception.
12	But if they shall bring up their sons and I bereaved them from man: but also wo to them in my departing from them.
13	Ephraim, as I saw for Tyre, was planted in a habitation: and Ephraim to bring forth his sons to him slaying.
14	Give to them, O Jehovah: what wilt thou give? give to them a miscarrying womb, and dry breasts.
15	All their wickedness in Gilgal: for there I hated them: for the evil of their doings I will drive them out from my house, I will not add to love them: all their chiefs are turning away.
16	Ephraim was smitten, their root was dried up, they shall not make fruit: also if they shall bring forth, and I destroyed the desires of their womb.
17	God will reject them, for they heard not to him: and they will be wandering about among the nations.