1	If therefore any consolation in Christ, if any encouragement of love, if any mutual participation of the Spirit, if any compassions and mercies,
2	Fill ye up my joy, that ye may have the same in mind, having the same love, unanimous, being one in mind.
3	Nothing by hired labor, or vainglory; but in lowliness the leaders hold each other above themselves.
4	Look ye each not on the things of themselves, but also each the things of others.
5	For let this be in mind among you, which also in Christ Jesus;
6	Who, being in the form of God, thought not robbery to be equal to God.
7	But emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, born in the likeness of men:
8	And found in fashion as man, he humbled himself, being obedient until death, and the death of the cross.
9	Wherefore God has also exceedingly exalted him, and favored him as a gift with a name above every name:
10	That in the name of Jesus every knee should bend, of the heavenlies, and of terrestrial things, and things under earth
11	And every tongue should avow that the Lord is Jesus Christ, to the glory of the Father.
12	Therefore, my beloved, as ye have always listened, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, with fear and tremor effect your own salvation.
13	For God is working in you also to will and to work by benevolence.
14	Do ye all things without murmurings and discussions:
15	That ye be complete and pure, children of God, blameless in the midst of a crooked and perverted generation, among whom ye appear as luminaries in the world;
16	Holding on to the word of life; for boasting to me in the day of Christ, for I ran not in vain, nor was I wearied in vain.
17	But if also I am poured out upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice, and rejoice together with you all.
18	And do ye also rejoice at the same, and rejoice together with me.
19	And I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy quickly to you, that I also be courageous, having known the things concerning you.
20	For I have none having a like soul, who naturally will have care for the things concerning you.
21	For they all seek the things of themselves, and not the things of Christ Jesus.
22	And ye know his proof, that, as a child to a father, he served with me in the good news.
23	Him therefore I truly hope to send, whenever I shall see from it the things concerning me.
24	And I have trusted in the Lord that I myself also shall come quickly.
25	And I thought necessary Epaphroditus, my brother, and cooperator, and fellow-soldier, and your sent, and workman of my necessity, be sent to you.
26	Since he was longing for you all, and harassed because ye heard that he was sick.
27	For also he was sick near to death: but God compassionated him; and not him only, but also me, lest I should have grief upon grief.
28	Therefore I sent him the more earnestly, that, seeing him, ye might again rejoice, and I be more free from sorrow.
29	Therefore receive him in the Lord with all joy; and hold such esteemed.
30	Because for the work of Christ he drew near to death, having exposed the soul to danger, that he might fill up your want of service to me.