1	As to the rest, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, to me is not slothful, and to you safe.
2	Look out for dogs, look out for evil workmen, look out for the incision.
3	For we are the circumcision, serving God in spirit, and boasting in Christ Jesus, and not trusting in the flesh.
4	Although I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any other think to have confidence in the flesh, I more:
5	Circumcision done the eighth day, of the race of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews; concerning the law, a Pharisee;
6	For zeal, driving out the church; for justice in the law, not to be found fault with.
7	But what things were gain to me, these I have thought loss for Christ.
8	But surely, I also think all things to be loss for the superiority of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord: for whom I have been made to lose all things, and I think to be offscourings, that I shall gain Christ,
9	And be found in him, not having my justice, that of the law, but that by faith of Christ, the justice from God by faith:
10	To know him, and the power of his rising up, and the mutual participation of his sufferings, being rendered conformable to his death;
11	If somehow I shall arrive at the rising up of the dead.
12	Not that I have already attained or have been already perfected: and I pursue, if I also may overtake, for which also I was overtaken by Christ Jesus.
13	Brethren, I reckon not myself to have been overtaken: but one, truly forgetting things behind, and stretching still farther to things before,
14	I pursue toward the scope for the prize of combat of the calling above of God in Christ Jesus.
15	Therefore, as many as are completed, let us have this in mind; and if in any thing ye think otherwise, God will also reveal this to you.
16	But, at what we before arrived, to walk by the same rule, to think the same.
17	Be ye imitators together of me, brethren, and observe narrowly those walking thus, as ye have us for a type.
18	(For many walk, of whom I said to you often, and now also say weeping, the enemies of the cross of Christ:
19	Whose end destruction, whose God the belly, and their glory in shame, having in mind earthly things.)
20	For our citizenship is in the heavens; from whence we also expect the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ:
21	Who will change the body of our humiliation, for it to be conformable to the body of his glory, according to the operation by which he is able to place all things under himself.