1	Therefore, my brethren, dearly beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, thus stand ye in the Lord, dearly beloved.
2	I beseech Euodias, and I beseech Syntyche, to think the same in the Lord.
3	And I also ask thee, worthy yoke fellow, aid those women who fought in company with me in the good news, and with Clement, and the rest of my co-workers, whose names in the book of life.
4	Rejoice in the Lord always: again say I, Do ye rejoice.
5	Let your fitness be known to all men. The Lord is near.
6	Rave anxiety about nothing; but in every thing by prayer and supplication with gratitude let your desires be made known to God.
7	And the peace of God, surpassing all understanding, shall watch your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.
8	As to the rest, brethren, whatever things are true, whatever venerable, whatever just, whatever pure, whatever lovely, whatever prosperous; if any ability, and if any praise, reckon up these things.
9	And what things ye learned, and received, and heard, and saw in me, these do; and the God of peace shall be with you.
10	And I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that once already ye recovered new vigor; for thinking of me, upon whom ye were thinking, and ye had not time.
11	Not that I speak concerning want; for I have learned, among whom I am, to be satisfied with my condition.
12	And I know how to be humble, and I know how to abound in every thing: and in all I am instructed also to be full and to hunger, and to abound and to be in want.
13	I am strong for all things in Christ strengthening me.
14	But ye did well, participating together in my pressure.
15	And ye also know, Philippians, that in the beginning of the good news, when I went out from Macedonia, no church participated with me in the word of donation and accepting, except ye alone.
16	For also in Thessalonica, and once, and twice, ye sent to my necessity.
17	Not that I covet a gift: but I covet fruit abounding to your word.
18	And I have all, and abound: I have been filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things from you, a smell of sweet odor, a sacrifice acceptable, pleasing to God.
19	And God will fill up all your need according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
20	And to God and our Father the glory for the times of times. Amen.
21	Greet ye every one holy in Christ Jesus. The brethren with me greet you.
22	All the holy greet you, and chiefly they from Caesar’s house.
23	The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ with you all. Amen.