1	My brothers, within the glorious faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, do not choose to show favoritism toward persons.
2	For if a man has entered your assembly having a gold ring and splendid apparel, and if a poor man has also entered, in dirty clothing,
3	and if you are then attentive to the one who is clothed in excellent apparel, so that you say to him, “You may sit in this good place,” but you say to the poor man, “You stand over there,” or, “Sit below my footstool,”
4	are you not judging within yourselves, and have you not become judges with unjust thoughts?
5	My most beloved brothers, listen. Has not God chosen the poor in this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom that God has promised to those who love him?
6	But you have dishonored the poor. Are not the rich the ones who oppress you through power? And are not they the ones who drag you to judgment?
7	Are not they the ones who blaspheme the good name which has been invoked over you?
8	So if you perfect the regal law, according to the Scriptures, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself,” then you do well.
9	But if you show favoritism to persons, then you commit a sin, having been convicted again by the law as transgressors.
10	Now whoever has observed the whole law, yet who offends in one matter, has become guilty of all.
11	For he who said, “You shall not commit adultery,” also said, “You shall not kill.” So if you do not commit adultery, but you kill, you have become a transgressor of the law.
12	So speak and act just as you are beginning to be judged, by the law of liberty.
13	For judgment is without mercy toward him who has not shown mercy. But mercy exalts itself above judgment.
14	My brothers, what benefit is there if someone claims to have faith, but he does not have works? How would faith be able to save him?
15	So if a brother or sister is naked and daily in need of food,
16	and if anyone of you were to say to them: “Go in peace, keep warm and nourished,” and yet not give them the things that are necessary for the body, of what benefit is this?
17	Thus even faith, if it does not have works, is dead, in and of itself.
18	Now someone may say: “You have faith, and I have works.” Show me your faith without works! But I will show you my faith by means of works.
19	You believe that there is one God. You do well. But the demons also believe, and they tremble greatly.
20	So then, are you willing to understand, O foolish man, that faith without works is dead?
21	Was not our father Abraham justified by means of works, by offering his son Isaac upon the altar?
22	Do you see that faith was cooperating with his works, and that by means of works faith was brought to fulfillment?
23	And so the Scripture was fulfilled which says: “Abraham believed God, and it was reputed to him unto justice.” And so he was called the friend of God.
24	Do you see that a man is justified by means of works, and not by faith alone?
25	Similarly also, Rahab, the harlot, was she not justified by works, by receiving the messengers and sending them out through another way?
26	For just as the body without the spirit is dead, so also faith without works is dead.