1	And having risen from thence, he comes into the bounds of Judea, through the other side of Jordan: and crowds came together again to him; and, as he was accustomed, again he taught them.
2	And the Pharisees having come near, asked him, if it is lawful for a man to loose his wife; tempting him.
3	And he, having answered, said to them, What did Moses command you?
4	And they said, Moses permitted to write a bill of divorce, and to loose.
5	And Jesus, having answered, said to them, For your hard heart he wrote you this command.
6	And from the beginning of creation God made them male and female.
7	For this will a man leave his father and mother, and be attached to his wife;
8	And they two shall be in one flesh: so that they are no more two, but one flesh.
9	What therefore God yoked together, let not man separate.
10	And again in the house, his disciples asked him of the same.
11	And he says to them, Whoever should loose his wife, and should marry another, commits adultery against her.
12	And if a woman should loose her husband, and be married to another, she commits adultery.
13	And they brought young children to him, that he might touch them: and the disciples rebuked those bringing.
14	And Jesus, having seen, felt pain, and said to them, Permit children to come to me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God.
15	Truly I say to you, Whoever should not receive the kingdom of God as a young child, should not come into it.
16	And having taken them up in his arms, having put the hands upon them, he praised them.
17	And he going in the way, one running and having fallen upon his knees, asked him, Good teacher, What shall I do that I might inherit eternal life.
18	And Jesus said to him, Why sayest thou me good? none good, except the one God.
19	Thou knowest the commands: Thou shouldst not commit adultery; Thou shouldst not kill; Thou shouldst not steal; Thou shouldst not bear false testimony; Thou shouldst not defraud; Honour thy father and mother.
20	And he, having answered, said to him, O teacher, all these have I watched from my youth.
21	And Jesus having looked upon him, loved him, and said to him, One thing is wanting to thee retire; whatever thou hast, sell, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me, having taken up the cross.
22	And he, being sad at the word, went away being grieved: for he had many possessions.
23	And Jesus having looked round, said to his disciples, With what difficulty shall they having property enter into the kingdom of God.
24	And his disciples were amazed at his words. And Jesus again having answered, says to them, How difficult, children, is it for those trusting in property to enter into the kingdom of God!
25	It is easier labor for a camel to come through the hole of a needle, than for a rich one to come into the kingdom of God.
26	And they were struck with amazement, excessively, saying to themselves, And who can be saved.
27	And Jesus having beheld them says, With men impossible, but not with God: for all things are possible with God.
28	And Peter began to say to him, Behold, we have left all things, and have followed thee.
29	And Jesus having answered, said, Truly I say to you, There is none who has left house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or fields, for sake of me, and the good news,
30	Except he should receive a hundred-fold now in this time, houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mother, and children, and fields, with expulsions; and in the time coming eternal life.
31	And many first shall be last; and the last first.
32	And they were in the way going up to Jerusalem; and Jesus was leading before them; and they were amazed; and following, they were afraid. And again taking the twelve, he began to say to them the things about to happen to him,
33	For, behold, we go up to Jerusalem; and the Son of man shall be delivered to the chief priests, and scribes; and they shall condemn him to death: and shall deliver him to the nations:
34	And they shall mock him, and shall scourge him, and shall spit upon him, and shall kill him: and the third day he shall be raised up.
35	And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, come to him, saying, Teacher, we wish that whatever we should ask, thou wouldst do for us.
36	And he said to them, What wish you me to do for you?
37	And they said to him, Give us that we might sit, one from thy right hand, and one front thy left, in thy glory.
38	And Jesus said to them, Ye know not what ye ask: can ye drink the cup which I drink? and the immersion with which I am immersed to be immersed.
39	And they said to him, We can. And Jesus said to them, Truly the cup which I drink shall ye drink; and the immersion with which I am immersed, shall ye be immersed.
40	And to sit from my right hand, and from my left is not mine to give; but for whom it has been prepared.
41	And the ten having heard, began to feel pain about James and John.
42	And Jesus having called them, says to them, Ye know that they thinking to be first of the nations rule over them; and their great ones exercise authority over them.
43	And it shall not be so among you: but whoever should wish to be great among you, shall be your attendant:
44	And whoever of you should wish to be the first, he shall be the servant of all.
45	For also the Son of man came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his soul a ransom for many.
46	And they come into Jericho: and he going out from Jericho, and his disciples, and a sufficient crowd, Bartimeus the blind, son of Timaeus, sat by the way asking alms.
47	And having heard that it is Jesus the Nazarite, he began to cry, and to say, Son of David, O Jesus, compassionate me.
48	And many were rebuking him, that he should be silent: and he cried much more, Son of David, compassionate me.
49	And Jesus having stood, spake for him to be called. And they call the blind man, saying to him, Take courage, arise; he calls thee.
50	And he, having cast away his garment, having risen, came to Jesus.
51	And Jesus having answered, said to him, What wishest thou I should do to thee? And the blind said to him, Rabboni, that I might see again.
52	And Jesus said to him, Retire; thy faith has saved thee. And quickly he looked up, and followed Jesus in the way.