1	And be began to speak to them in parables. A man planted a vineyard, and put a fence round, and digged a winefat, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen, and went abroad.
2	And he sent a servant to the husbandmen in time, that he might receive of the husbandmen from the fruit of the vineyard.
3	And they, taking him, stripped, and sent away empty.
4	And again he sent to them another servant; and having stoned the same they treated in a summary manner, and sent away despised.
5	And again he sent another; and him they killed, and many others; truly stripping some, and killing some.
6	Yet therefore having one dearly beloved son, and him he sent last to them, saying, That they will be changed by my son.
7	And these husbandmen said with themselves, That this is the heir; come, let us kill him, and the inheritance shall be our’s.
8	And they having taken him, killed, and cast out of the vineyard.
9	Therefore what will the lord of the vineyard do? he will come and destroy the husbandmen, and give the vineyard to others.
10	And have ye not read this writing; The stone which the builders disapproved of, this was for the head of the corner:
11	This was of the Lord, and is wonderful in our eyes?
12	And they sought to seize him, and they feared the crowd: for they knew that he spake this parable against them: and having let him go they went away.
13	And they sent to him certain of the Pharisees and of the Herodians, that they might catch him in the word.
14	And they having come, say to him, Teacher, we know that thou art true, and thou carest not for any one: for thou lookest not to the face of men, but in truth thou teachest the way of God: Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or no?
15	Should we give, or not give? And he knowing their hypocrisy, said to them, Why tempt ye me? bring me a drachma that I might see it.
16	And they brought. And he says to them, Whose is this image and inscription? And they said to him, Caesar’s.
17	And Jesus having answered, said to them, Give back Caesar’s things to Caesar, and the things of God to God. And they wondered at him.
18	And the Sadducees come to him, who say there is no rising up; and they asked him, saying,
19	Teacher, Moses wrote to us, That if any one’s brother die, and leave his wife, and leave no children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise up seed to his brother.
20	There were seven brethren: and the first took a wife, and dying left no seed.
21	And the second took her, and died, and neither left he seed: and the third likewise.
22	And the seven took her, and left no seed: and the woman died last of all.
23	Therefore in the rising up, when they should rise, to which of them shall the woman be? for the seven had her a wife.
24	And Jesus having answered, said to them, For this do ye not go astray, not knowing the writings, nor the power of God?
25	For when they arise from the dead, they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are as the messengers which in the heavens.
26	And concerning the dead that they are raised: have ye not read in the book of Moses, at the bramble, how God spake to him, I the God of Abraham, and God of Isaac, and God of Jacob.
27	He is not God of the dead, but God of the living; ye therefore go astray greatly.
28	And one of the scribes having come, having heard them seeking out together, knowing that he answered them well, asked him, Which is the first command of all?
29	And Jesus answered him, That the first of all the commands, Hear, O Israel; The Lord our God is one Lord:
30	And thou shalt love the Lord thy God from thy whole heart, and from thy whole soul, and from thy whole mind, and from thy whole strength: this the first command.
31	And the second like it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. No other command is greater than these.
32	And the scribe said to him, Well, Teacher, in truth hast thou spoken: for one God is; and there is no other but he:
33	And to love him from the whole heart, and from the whole understanding, and from the whole soul, and from the whole strength, and to love the neighbor as himself, is more than all the whole burnt offerrings, and the sacrifices.
34	And Jesus having seen him that he answered understandingly, said to him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God. And none dared to ask him any more.
35	And Jesus having answered, said, teaching in the temple, How say the scribes that Christ is the son of David.
36	For David himself said in the Holy Spirit, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit from my right hand, till I set thine enemies the footstool of thy feet.
37	Therefore David himself calls him Lord; and whence is he his son? And a great crowd heard him willingly.
38	And he said to them in his teaching, Look from the scribes, wishing to walk in robes, and greetings in market-places,
39	And first seats in synagogues, and first place at tables in first meals:
40	They eating in widows’ houses, and praying long for a pretext: these shall receive more abundant judgment.
41	And Jesus having sat over against the royal treasury, saw how the crowds cast money into the treasury: and many rich cast in much.
42	And one poor widow, having come, cast in two small coins, which is a farthing.
43	And having called his disciples, he says to them, Truly I say to you, That this poor widow has cast into the royal treasury, more than all they casting into the treasury:
44	For all they cast in out of the abundance to them; and she, out of her want, cast in all things which she had, her whole living.