1	And after two days was the pascha, and the unleavened loaves: and the chief priests and scribes sought how, having taken him by fraud, they might kill.
2	And they said, Not in the festival, lest there be an uproar of the people.
3	And he being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leprous, he reclining at table, a woman came having an alabaster box of perfumed oil of persuasive, costly, spikenard; and having broken the alabaster box, she poured upon his head.
4	And there were some displeased in themselves, and saying, For what has been the loss of this perfumed oil?
5	For this could have been sold for above three hundred drachmas, and have been given to the poor. And they raged against her.
6	And Jesus said, Let her go; why bestow ye weariness upon her? she has wrought a good work upon me.
7	For always have ye the poor with you, and when ye wish ye can do them good: and me ye have not always.
8	And what she had, she has done: she has undertaken beforehand to perfume my body for the burial.
9	Truly I say to you, Wherever this good news be proclaimed in the whole world, also what she has done shall be spoken for a memorial of her.
10	And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went away to the chief priests, that he might deliver him to them.
11	And having heard, they rejoiced, and promised to give him silver. And he sought how he might opportunely deliver him up.
12	And in the first day of the unleavened, when they sacrificed the pascha, his disciples say to him, Where wilt thou, we, having gone, should prepare that thou eat the pascha.
13	And he sends two of his disciples, and says to them, Retire to the city, and a man shall meet you bearing an earthen vessel of water; follow him.
14	And wherever he should enter in, say to the lord of the house, That the Teacher says, Where is the room where I might eat the pascha with my disciples?
15	And he will shew you a great apartment spread, ready: there prepare for us.
16	And his disciples went out, and came to the city, and found as he said to them: and they prepared the pascha.
17	And having been evening, he comes with the twelve.
18	And they reclining and eating, Jesus said, Truly I say to you, That one of you shall deliver me up, he eating with me.
19	And they began to be grieved, and to say to him one by one, What, not I? and another, What, not I?
20	And he having answered, said to them, One of the twelve, he dipping with me into the small dish.
21	Truly the Son of man retires, as has been written of him: and woe to that man by whom the Son of man is delivered up! it were good for him if that man had not been born.
22	And they eating, Jesus having taken bread, having praised, brake, and gave them, and said, Take, eat: this is my body.
23	And having taken the cup, having returned thanks, he gave them: and they all drank of it.
24	And he said to them, This is my blood, that of the new covenant, being poured out for many.
25	Truly I say to you, that I will no more drink of the fruit of the vine, till that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
26	And having sung, they came out to the mount of Olives.
27	And Jesus says to them, That all ye shall be offended with me in this night: for it has been written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered.
28	But after I have risen, I will lead before you into Galilee.
29	And Peter said to him, And if all shall be offended, yet not I.
30	And Jesus says to him, Truly I say to thee, That to day, in this night, surely before the cock has uttered a sound twice, thou shalt deny me thrice.
31	And he said more excessively, If I should die with thee, I shall not deny thee. And so likewise they all said.
32	And they came to a place, the name of which Gethsemane: and he says to his disciples, Sit here, while I shall pray.
33	And he takes Peter and James and John with himself, and began to be amazed, and to be dejected.
34	And he says to them, My soul is sorely grieved, even to death: remain here, and watch.
35	And having gone forward a little, he fell upon the earth and prayed that, if it be possible, the hour might pass away from him.
36	And he said, Abba, Father, all things possible to thee; turn away this cup from me: but not what I will, but what thou.
37	And he comes, and finds them sleeping, and says to Peter, Simon, sleepest thou? could eat thou not watch one Hour?
38	Watch ye and pray, that ye should not come into temptation. Truly the spirit well inclined, and the flesh weak.
39	And again having gone away, he prayed; saying the same word.
40	And having turned back, he found them again sleeping, (for their eyes were loaded,) and they knew not what they might answer him.
41	And he comes the third time, and says to them, Sleep the remaining time, and take rest: it is sufficient, the hour has come; behold, the Son of man is delivered into the hands of the sinful.
42	Arise, and let us lead; behold, he delivering me up has drawn near.
43	And quickly, he yet speaking, Judas approaches, being one of the twelve, and with him a great crowd with swords and sticks from the chief priests and scribes and the more ancient.
44	And he delivering him up gave them a token, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, this is he; seize him, and lead away safely.
45	And having come, quickly having approached him, he says, Rabbi, rabbi; and kissed him.
46	And they put their hands on him, and seized him.
47	And a certain one of them standing by, having drawn a sword, struck the chief priest’s servant, and took away his ear.
48	And Jesus having answered, said to them, As against a robber come ye out, with swords and sticks to take me.
49	Daily was I with you in the temple teaching, and ye seized me not: but that the writings might be completed.
50	And having left him, they all fled.
51	And one certain young man followed him, having cast a garment of fine linen over his nakedness; and the young men seized him:
52	And having left the fine linen garment, he fled from them naked.
53	And they led Jesus away to the pontificate: and all the chief priests and elders and scribes came with him.
54	And Peter followed him from far, even to within the court-yard of the chief priest: and he was sitting with the attendants, and warming himself near the light.
55	And the chief priests and the whole council sought testimony against Jesus, to put him to death; and found not:
56	For many testified falsely against him, and the testimonies were not alike.
57	And certain having risen up testified falsely against him, saying,
58	That we heard him saying, That I will abolish this temple made with hands, and in three days will I build another, made without hands.
59	And neither so was their testimony alike.
60	And the chief priest having risen up in the midst, asked Jesus, saying, Answerest thou nothing? what these testify against thee.
61	And he was silent, and answered nothing. Again the chief priest asks him, and says to him, Art thou Christ, Son of the Praised.
62	And Jesus said, I am: and ye shall see the Son of man sitting from the right hand of power, and coming with the clouds of heaven.
63	And the chief priest, having rent his tunic, says, What further need have we of witnesses.
64	Ye have heard the blasphemy; How does it appear to you? And they all condemned him to be liable to the penalty of death.
65	And certain began to spit upon him, and to cover his face, and to cuff him, and to say to him, Prophesy: and the attendants struck him blows with rods.
66	And Peter being in the hall how, one of the chief priest’s young girls comes:
67	And seeing Peter warming himself, having looked upon him, she says, And thou wast with Jesus the Nazarene.
68	And he denied, saying, I know not, neither understand what thou sayest. And he went forth without into the vestibule; and the cock uttered a sound.
69	And the young girl seeing him again, began to say to, them standing by, That this is of them: and again he denied.
70	And after a little, again they standing by said to Peter, Truly thou art of them: for thou art a Galilean, and thy speech is like.
71	And he began to anathematize and swear, That I know not this man of whom ye speak.
72	And of the second time the cock uttered a sound. And Peter remembered the word which Jesus spake to him, That before the cock utter a sound twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. And throwing blame, he wept.