1	And quickly the chief priests having made counsel with the more ancient and scribes and the whole council, having bound Jesus, led away, and delivered to Pilate.
2	And Pilate asked him, Art thou the King of the Jews? And having answered, he said to him, Thou sayest.
3	And the chief priests accused him much.
4	And Pilate again asked him, saying, Answerest thou nothing? behold how much they accuse thee.
5	And Jesus yet answered nothing; so that Pilate wondered.
6	And at the festival he loosed to them one in bonds, whomsoever they asked.
7	And there was he called Barabbas, bound with those exciting sedition, who did murder in the revolt.
8	And the crowd having cried, began to ask as he did always to them.
9	And Pilate answered them, saying, Will ye I loose to you the King of the Jews?
10	For he knew that through envy the chief priests had delivered him up:
11	And the chief priests moved the crowd, that he would rather loose Barabbas to them.
12	And Pilate having answered, again said to them, What then will ye I should do to him whom ye call King of the Jews?
13	And again they cried out, Crucify him.
14	And Pilate said to them, But what evil has he done? And they cried out more excessively, Crucify him.
15	And Pilate, willing to satisfy the crowd, loosed to them Barabbas, and delivered Jesus, having scourged, that he might be crucified.
16	And the soldiers led him away within the hall, which is the Pretorium; and they call together the whole band.
17	And they clothed him with purple, and put round him, having woven, a thorny crown.
18	And they began to greet him, Hail, O King of the Jews.
19	And they struck his head with a reed, and they spit upon him, and having placed the knees, they worshipped him.
20	And when they mocked him, they put off the purple from him, and clothed him with his own garments, and led him out that they might crucify him.
21	And they constrain a certain Simon, a Cyrenian, passing by, coming from the field, the father of Alexander and Rufus, that he might take up his cross.
22	And they bring him to the place Golgotha, which is, interpreted, The place of a skull.
23	And they gave him wine to drink, prepared with myrrh: and he took not.
24	And having crucified him, they divided his garments, casting lots upon what any should take up.
25	And it was the third hour, and they crucified him:
26	And the inscription of his accusation was inscribed above, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
27	And with him they crucify two robbers; one from the right, and one from the left.
28	And the writing was completed, saying, And he was reckoned with the lawless.
29	And they going by blasphemed him, shaking their heads, and saying, Ah, thou loosing the temple, and building in three days,
30	Save thyself, and come down from the cross.
31	And likewise also the chief priests, mocking to one another with the scribes, said, He saved others; himself he cannot save.
32	Let Christ, King of Israel, come down from the cross, that we might see and believe. And they crucified with him reproached him.
33	And being the sixth hour, darkness was upon the whole earth till the ninth hour.
34	And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a great voice, saying, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is, being interpreted, My God, my God, for what hast thou forsaken me?
35	And some of them standing by, having heard, said, Behold, he calls Elias.
36	And one running and having filled a sponge with vinegar, and put round a reed, gave him to drink, saying, Let alone; let us see if Elias will come to take him down.
37	And Jesus having let go a great voice, expired.
38	And the veil of the temple was split in two from above to below.
39	And the centurion, standing over against him, having seen that having so cried out he expired, said, Truly this man was the Son- of God.
40	And women also were beholding from far: among whom was Mary Magdalene, and Mary of James the small and the mother of Joses, and Salome;
41	(And they, when he was in Galilee, followed him and served him;) and many other women, having come up with him to Jerusalem.
42	And being already evening, for it was the preparation, which is before sabbath,
43	Joseph came from Arimathea, a distinguished counsellor, who also himself was expecting the kingdom of God, having ventured, he went in to Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus.
44	And Pilate wondered if he were already dead: and having called the centurion, he asked him if he had been dead long ago.
45	And having known from the centurion, he bestowed the body to Joseph.
46	And having bought fine linen, and taken him down, he rolled in fine linen, and placed him in a tomb, which was quarried out of a rock, and he rolled a stone at the door of the tomb.
47	And Mary Magdalene and Mari of Joses were beholding where he is laid.