1	Wo to those decreeing not decrees, and they wrote writings of labor;
2	To turn away the judgment of the powerless, and to strip off judgment of the distressed of my people, for widows to be their plunder, and they will plunder orphans.
3	And what will ye do for the day of reviewing, and for the tempest coming from far off? upon whom will ye flee for help? and where will ye leave your glory?
4	Not to bow under the bound, and they shall fell under the slain; in all this his anger turned not back, and yet his hand stretched out.
5	Wo to Assur the rod of mine anger, and that rod in their hand, my wrath.
6	Against a polluted nation will I send him, and upon a people of my outpouring will I command him to spoil a spoil and to plunder a plunder, and to set them a treading down as the clay of the streets.
7	And he will not thus purpose, and his heart will not reckon thus; for in his heart to destroy and to cut off nations not few.
8	For he will say, Are not my chiefs united together kings?
9	Is not as Carchemish, Calno? if not as Arpad, Hamath? if not as Damascus, Shomeron?
10	As my hand found for the kingdoms of nothing, and their carved images from Jerusalem and from Shomeron;
11	Is it not according to what I did to Shomeron and to her nothings, thus will I do to Jerusalem and to her images?
12	And it was when the Lord will complete all his work upon mount Zion and upon Jerusalem, I will review upon the fruit of the great heart of the king of Assur and upon the glory of his eyes lifted up.
13	For he said, By strength of my hand I did, and by my wisdom, for I was discreet: and I will remove the bounds of the people, and their things prepared I plundered, and I will bring down as a strong one the inhabitants.
14	And my hand will find as a nest for the strength of the peoples: and as he gathering eggs left, I gathered all the land; and there was not moving the wing, and opening wide the mouth, and peeping.
15	Shall the axe vaunt itself against him hewing with it? shall the saw magnify itself against him moving it up and down? as the rod moving up and down with those lifting it up; as the lifting up of the rod not wood.
16	For this shall Jehovah, the Lord of armies send among his fatnesses leanness; and under his glory he shall burn a burning as the burning of fire.
17	And the light of Israel was for a fire, and his Holy for a flame: and he burnt and consumed his thorns, and his sharp points in one day:
18	And the glory of his forest and his Carmel, from the soul and even to the flesh, he shall finish, and it was as he fainting pined away.
19	And the remainder of the wood of his forest shall be of number, and a boy shall write them.
20	And it was in that day the remainder of Israel shall no more add, and the escaping of the house of Jacob, to lean upon him smiting them; and were leaning upon Jehovah the holy of Israel in truth.
21	The remainder shall turn back the remainder of Jacob to the mighty God.
22	For if my people Israel shall be as the sand of the sea, the remnant shall turn back among them: a consumption decided overflowing justice.
23	For the Lord Jehovah of armies made a completion, and decided it in the midst of all the land.
24	For this, thus said the Lord Jehovah of armies, Thou my people dwelling in Zion shalt not fear from Assur: with the rod he shall strike thee and he will lift up his rod upon thee, in the way of Egypt.
25	For yet a very little and wrath finished, and mine anger, in their destruction.
26	And Jehovah of armies roused up for him a scourge according to the blow of Midian at the rock Oreb: and his rod upon the sea, and he lifted it up in the way of Egypt.
27	And it was in that day, his burden shall remove from off thy shoulder, and his yoke from off thy neck, and the yoke was lightened from the face of the anointing.
28	He came upon Aioth, he passed through into Migron; at Michmash he will deposit his vessels.
29	They passed through the passage the hill a lodging to us; Ramesh trembled; the hill of Saul fled.
30	Cry aloud with thy voice, thou daughter of Gallim: hearken to Irish, Anathoth answered.
31	Madmenah moved; they dwelling in Gebim fled for safety.
32	Yet the day to stand in Nob: his hand will shake the mountain of the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem.
33	Behold the Lord Jehovah of armies dividing the bough with sudden violence: and the high of stature hewn down, and the lofty shall be humbled.
34	And he cut down the thickets of the forest with iron, and Lebanon shall fall with a lofty one.