1	And a rod shall come forth from the stock of Jesse, and a sprout shall blossom from his roots:
2	And the spirit of Jehovah resting upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and strength, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of Jehovah:
3	His sweet odor in the fear of Jehovah: and not according to the seeing of his eyes shall he judge, and not according to the hearing of his ears shall he decide.
4	And he judged the powerless with justice, and he decided in straightness for the humble of the earth: and he struck the earth with the rod of his mouth, and by the spirit of his lips he will slay the unjust.
5	And justice was the girding of his loins, and truth the girding of his loins.
6	The wolf dwelt with the lamb; and the panther will lie down with the kid; and the calf and the young lion and the falling together, and a little boy leading with them.
7	And the heifer and the bear shall feed together, and their young shall lie down; and the lion shall eat straw as the ox.
8	And the suckling was delighted upon the hole of the asp, and upon the viper’s den the weaned directed his hand.
9	They shall not do evil, and they shall not destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth full of the knowledge of Jehovah as the waters covering to the sea.
10	And there was in that day a root of Jesse which stood for a signal of the peoples; to him shall the nations seek, and his rest was glory.
11	And it was in that day Jehovah shall add the second time his hand to gain the remnant of his people which shall be left from Assur and from Egypt, and from Pathros, and from Cush, and from Elam, and from Shinar, and from Hamath, and from the islands of the sea.
12	And he lifted up a signal to the nations, and he gathered the outcasts of Israel, and he will collect the dispersed of Judah from the four wings of the earth.
13	And the jealousy of Ephraim was removed, and the adversaries of Judah shall be cut off: Ephraim shall not envy Judah, and Judah shall not press upon Ephraim.
14	And they flew upon the shoulder of the rovers to the sea; together shall they plunder the sons of the east: Edom and Moab the sending forth of their hand, and the sons of Ammon their audience.
15	And Jehovah exterminated the tongue of the sea of Egypt, and he moved to and fro his hand over the river with the strength of his wind, and he struck it to the seven torrents, and he caused them to tread in shoes.
16	And there was a highway for the remnant of his people which shall be left from Assur, as it was to Israel in the day of his coming up from the land of Egypt.