1	Send ye a lamb to the ruler to the land, from the rock of the desert to the mountain of the daughter of Zion.
2	And it shall be as the bird fleeing, the nest cast out, the daughters of Moab shall be from the passages to Arnon.
3	Bring ye counsel, do judgment; place as the night thy shadow in the midst of noon; hide the driven out; thou shalt not betray the fugitive.
4	The outcast shall dwell with thee, Moab; be thou a covering to them from the face of him laying waste: for the oppressor ceased, violence was finished, the treaders-down were consumed out of the land.
5	And the throne was set up in mercy: and he sat upon it in truth in the tent of David, judging and seeking judgment, and hastening justice.
6	We heard the pride of Moab; he was greatly elated; his haughtiness and his pride and his wrath; not so his empty talk.
7	For this shall Moab wail for Moab, every one shall wail: for the foundations of the wall of Haresheth shall ye sigh; surely they were smitten.
8	For the fields of Heshbon languished, the vine of Sibmah: the lords of the nations struck its vine of purple grapes, they reached even to Jazer, they wandered to the desert: her sprouts were thrust out, they passed over the sea.
9	For this I will weep with the weeping of Jazer the vine of Sibmah; I will water thee with my tears, O Heshbon and Elealah: for upon thy fruit harvest and upon thy harvest the vintage shout fell.
10	And joy and gladness was taken away from Carmel, and in the vineyards there shall be no shout for joy, there shall be no cry with a loud voice: and he treading shall not tread out wine in the wine-vat: I caused the vintage shout to cease.
11	For this my bowels shall sound as a harp for Moab, and my inner parts for the wall of Haresh.
12	And it was when it was seen that Moab was weary upon the height, and coming to his holy place to pray and he shall not be able.
13	This the word which Jehovah spake to Moab from that time.
14	And now Jehovah spake, saying, In three years as the years of a hireling and the honor of Moab despised with with all the great multitude; and the remnant being small, not great.