1	The burden of Egypt Behold, Jehovah riding upon a swift cloud and coming to Egypt: and the vanities of Egypt moved to and fro from his face, and the heart of Egypt will melt in its midst.
2	And I aroused Egypt against Egypt, and they warred a man against his brother, and a man against his neighbor; city against city, and kingdom against kingdom.
3	And the spirit of Egypt was emptied in its midst, and its counsel I will destroy: and they sought to the vanities and to the mutterers, and to the necromancers, and to the wizards.
4	And I shut up Egypt into the hand of hard lords, and a strong king shall rule over them, says the Lord Jehovah of armies.
5	And the water failed from the sea, and the river will waste and dry up.
6	They cast away the rivers; the rivers of Egypt languished and dried up; the reed and the sedge pined away.
7	The naked places by the river upon the mouth of the river, and everything being sown by the river was dried up, driven away, and nothing of it.
8	And the fishermen groaned, and all casting the hook into the river mourned, and they spreading nets upon the face of the water, languished.
9	And they working hatcheled flax and they weaving white linens were ashamed.
10	And her pillars were broken in pieces, and all making wages, sorrowful in soul.
11	Also the chiefs of Zoan are foolish, the wise counseling Pharaoh the counsel became brutish: how shall ye say to Pharaoh, I the son of the wise, the son of kings of old?
12	Where are they? where thy wise? and they shall announce to thee now, and they shall make known what Jehovah shall counsel upon Egypt.
13	The chiefs of Zoan were foolish, the chiefs of Noph were deceived; and they caused Egypt to wander, the pinnacles of its tribes.
14	Jehovah mingled in the midst of her a spirit of perversities) and they caused Egypt to wander in all its works as the intoxicated wanders in his vomit.
15	And there shall not be to Egypt a work which shall make head and tail, branch and reed.
16	In that day Egypt shall be as women; and it trembled and was afraid from the face of the shaking of the hand of Jehovah of armies which he shook over it.
17	And the land of Judah was to Egypt for consternation, all which shall have it in remembrance shall be afraid to himself from the face of the counsel of Jehovah of armies which he shall counsel against it.
18	In that day there shall be five cities in the land of Egypt speaking the lip of Canaan, and they sware to Jehovah of armies; and to one it shall be said, The city of the sun.
19	In that day there shall be an altar to Jehovah in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar near its bound to Jehovah.
20	And it was for a sign and for a witness to Jehovah of armies in the land of Egypt, for they shall cry to Jehovah from the face of those pressing them, and he shall send to them him saving, and great, and he delivered them.
21	And Jehovah shall be known to Egypt, and the Egyptians shall know Jehovah in that day, and they made a sacrifice and gift, and they vowed a vow to Jehovah, and they completed.
22	And Jehovah smote Egypt, and he smote and healed: and they turned back even to Jehovah, and he was entreated by them, and he healed them.
23	In that day shall be a highway from Egypt to Assur, and Assur came into Egypt, and Egypt into Assur, and the Egyptians served with Assur.
24	In that day Israel shall be the third to Egypt and to Assur, and a blessing in the midst of the land:
25	Whom Jehovah of armies blest him, saying, Blessed my people of Egypt, and the work of my hand, Assur, and my inheritance Israel.