1	The word which Isaiah son of Amos saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem.
2	And it was in the last days, the mountain of the house of Jehovah shall be prepared upon the head of the mountains, and lifted up above the hills; and all nations flowed to it.
3	And many people went and said, Come, and we will go up to the mountain of Jehovah, to the house of the God of Jacob, and he will teach us from his ways, and we will go in his paths: for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of Jehovah from Jerusalem.
4	And he judged between the nations, and he will decide for many peoples: and they shall beat down their swords to plough-shares and their spears to pruning-hooks: nation shall not lift up sword against nation, and they shall no more learn war.
5	O house of Jacob, come ye, and we will go in the light of Jehovah.
6	For thou didst cast out thy people the house of Jacob, for they were filled from the east, and practicing magic as the rovers, and they will strike hands with the children of strangers.
7	And their land shall be full of silver and gold, and no end to their treasures; and their land shall be full of horses, and no end to their chariots.
8	And their land will be full of nothings; they will worship to the work of their hand, to what their fingers made:
9	And man will bow down, and a man will humble himself, and thou shalt not lift up to them.
10	Go into the rock, and hide in the dust from the face of the fear of Jehovah, and from the splendor of his majesty.
11	The lofty eyes of man were humbled, and the height of men bowed down, and Jehovah alone was exalted in that day.
12	For the day to Jehovah of armies is upon all the haughty and the high, and upon all lifted up; and he was humbled:
13	And upon all the cedars of Lebanon being high and lifted up, and upon all the oaks of Bashan,
14	And upon all the high mountains, and upon all the hills being lifted up,
15	And upon every lofty tower, and upon every fortified wall,
16	And upon all the ships of Tarshish, and upon all the flags of desire.
17	And the haughtiness of man was bowed down, and the height of man was humbled: and Jehovah alone was exalted in that day.
18	And the nothings he shall cause to wholly pass away.
19	And they shall go into the caves of the rocks, and into the caverns of the dust, from the face of the fear of Jehovah, and from the splendor of his majesty in his rising to terrify the earth.
20	In that day man shall cast the nothings of his silver and the nothings of his gold which they made for him to worship, to the digging of moles and to bats.
21	To go into the clefts of the rocks, and into the fissures of the rocks from the face of the fear of Jehovah, and from the splendor of his majesty in his rising to terrify the earth.
22	Cease to you from man of whom the breath is in his nose: for in what was he reckoned?