1	Behold, a king shall reign for justice, and for chiefs they shall rule for judgment.
2	And a man was as a hiding of the spirit, and a covering of the tempest; as brooks of water in Zion, as the shadow of a weighty rock in a weary land.
3	And the eyes of those seeing shall not be blinded, and the ears of those hearing shall attend.
4	And the heart of the hasty shall understand to know, and the tongue of those stammering shall hasten to speak plain.
5	Liberal shall no more be called to the foolish, and noble shall not be said to the deceiver.
6	For the foolish will speak folly, and his heart will do vanity to do profaneness and to speak error to Jehovah, to empty the soul of the hungry; and he will cause the drink of the thirsty to fail.
7	And the implements of the deceiver are evil: he will meditate counsels to destroy the humble with words of falsehood, and in the needy’s speaking judgments.
8	And the liberal will counsel liberal things, and upon liberal things shall he stand.
9	Rise up, ye careless women; hear my voice, ye confident daughters; give ear to my word.
10	Days over a year shall ye being confident, be disturbed; for the vintage being finished, the ingathering shall not come.
11	Tremble, ye careless be disturbed, ye, confident: strip and be naked, gird upon the loins.
12	Smiting upon the breasts for the fields of desire, for the fruitful vine.
13	Upon the land of my people shall come up the thorn of the sharp point; so upon the houses of rejoicing of the exulting city.
14	For the fortress was left, the multitude of the city was forsaken; the hill and the watch-tower for caves even forever; the rejoicing of the wild asses a pasture of the flocks;
15	Until the spirit shall be poured upon us from on high, and the desert be for Carmel, and Carmel be reckoned for a forest.
16	And judgment dwelling in the desert, and justice shall sit in Carmel.
17	And the work of justice was peace, and the service of justice, rest and confidence, even to forever.
18	And my people shall sit in a dwelling of peace, and in habitations of trust and in quiet resting places.
19	And the hail hailing upon the forest; and the city shall be made low in lowness.
20	Happy ye sowing upon all waters, sending the foot of the ox and the ass.