1	Wo to thee oppressing, and thou not oppressed; and spoiling, and they spoiled not upon thee! when thou finishing to oppress, thou shalt be oppressed; when thou ceasing to spoil, they shall spoil upon thee.
2	O Jehovah, pity us: we hoped for thee: be thou their arm for the mornings, also our salvation in time of straits.
3	From the voice of the multitude peoples fled; from thy lifting up, nations were scattered.
4	And your spoil was gathered the gathering of the locust: as the running about of locusts he ran to and fro upon it.
5	Jehovah was exalted; for he dwells On high: he filled Zion with judgment and justice.
6	And the stability of thy times, the strength of salvation, was wisdom and knowledge: the fear of Jehovah this his treasure.
7	Behold the lions of God they cried out without: the messengers of peace shall weep bitterness.
8	The highways lay waste, the traveler passing by, ceased: he brake the covenant, he despised the cities, he reckoned them not men.
9	The earth mourning, languished: Lebanon being ashamed, pined away: Sharon was as a sterile region, and Bashan was shaken, and Carmel.
10	Now will I rise, Jehovah will say; now will I be exalted; now will I be lifted up.
11	Ye shall conceive dry grass, ye shall bring forth straw: your spirit of fire shall consume you.
12	And peoples were the burnings of lime; thorns cut down, in fire shall they be burnt.
13	Hear, ye afar off, what I did and know, ye drawing near, my strength.
14	The sinners in Zion trembled; trembling seized the profane. Who to us shall sojourn with devouring fire? who to us with everlasting burning?
15	He going in justice and speaking uprightness, rejecting in the plunder of oppression; shaking his hands from holding upon a gift, shutting his ear from the hearing of bloods, and binding up his eyes from looking upon evil;
16	He shall dwell upon heights: the strongholds of rocks his height: his bread was given; his waters sure.
17	Thine eyes shall perceive the king in his beauty: they shall see the land from far off.
18	Thy heart shall meditate terror. Where the scribe? where the weigher? where he writing the towers?
19	Thou shalt not see a firm people, a people of a deep lip above hearing; of a stammering tongue, of no understanding.
20	Behold Zion the city of our appointment: thine eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet dwelling, the tent shall not remove; its pegs shall not be pulled up forever, and none of its cords shall be broken.
21	But there the mighty Jehovah to us a place of rivers, rivers broad of hands; a ship with the oar shall not go in it, and a mighty ship shall not pass over it.
22	For Jehovah is our Judge, Jehovah our law-giver, Jehovah our king; he will save us.
23	Thy cords were broken in pieces; they will not well strengthen their mast; they spread not the flag: then was the prey of a great spoil divided; the lame plundered the plunder.
24	And the inhabitant shall not say, I was sick: to the people dwelling in it, iniquity was lifted up.