1	The spirit of the Lord Jehovah is upon me; because Jehovah anointed me to announce good news to the afflicted, he sent me to bind up to the broken of heart, to call freedom to the captives, and the opening of the prison to the bound.
2	To call the year of acceptance to Jehovah, and the day of vengeance to our God; to comfort all those mourning;
3	To set to those mourning in Zion, to give to them adorning instead of ashes, the oil of joy instead of mourning, the vestment of praise for the spirit of faintness; and it shall be called to them, The mighty trees of justice of the planting of Jehovah, to be honored.
4	And they shall build the perpetual wastes; they shall raise up the former desolations, and they renewed the cities of the waste, the desolations of generation and generation.
5	And strangers stood and fed your sheep, and the sons of the stranger, your husbandmen and your vinedressers.
6	And ye shall be called the priests of Jehovah, serving our God; he shall say to you, Ye shall eat the strength of the nations, and ye shall take place in their honor.
7	For your shame the second place; and they shall rejoice in reproach, their portion: for this in their land they shall inherit the second place; eternal joy shall be to them.
8	For I Jehovah love judgment, hating robbery for burnt-offering; and I gave their works in truth, and I will cut out to them an eternal covenant.
9	And their seed was known among the nations, and their offspring in the midst of the peoples: all seeing them shall recognise them, for they the seed Jehovah blessed.
10	Rejoicing, I will rejoice in Jehovah, my soul shall exult in my God, for he put upon me the garments of salvation, and he clothed me with a robe of justice, as a bridegroom will be a priest with a turban, and as a bride will be adorned with her dress.
11	For as the earth will bring forth her sprout, and as a garden will cause the things sown to sprout, so the Lord Jehovah will cause justice and praise to sprout before all nations.