1	Who this coming from Edom, splendid with garments from Bozra? this adorned in his attire, bowing himself in his strength? I, speaking in justice, great for salvation.
2	Wherefore red to thine attire, and thy garments as he treading in the wine press?
3	I trod the wine-press alone; and from the people not a man with me: and I will tread them down in my wrath, and I will trample them in mine anger, and their juice shall be sprinkled upon my garment, and I will stain all my vestment.
4	For the day of vengeance is in my heart, and the year of my redemption came.
5	And I shall look, and none helping; and I shall be astonished and none upholding: and my arm will save for me, and my wrath it upheld me.
6	And I will tread down peoples in mine anger; and I will make them drunk in my wrath, and I will bring down their juice to the earth.
7	I will remember the mercies of Jehovah, the praises of Jehovah according to all that Jehovah benefited us, and the abundance of good to the house of Israel which he benefited them according to his mercies and according to the multitude of his kindnesses.
8	And he will say, Surely they my people, sons that will not lie: and he will be to them for Saviour.
9	In all their straits not an adversary, and: a messenger of his face saved them: in his love and in his pity he redeemed them; and he will take them up and bear them all the days forever.
10	They embittered and grieved his holy spirit; and he will turn to them for an enemy; he fought against them.
11	And he will remember the days of old, Moses his people; Where he bringing them up from the sea with the shepherd of his sheep? where he putting his holy spirit in the midst of him?
12	Leading by the right hand of Moses, the arm of his glory dividing the waters from before them to make to him an eternal name.
13	Leading them through the depths as a horse in the desert, they shall not be weak.
14	As cattle in the valley the spirit of Jehovah will come down, it will cause us to rest: so thou didst lead thy people, to make to thee a name of glory.
15	Look from the heavens, and see from thy holy dwelling and thy glory: where thy zeal and thy strength? the multitude of thy bowels and thy compassions to me restrained themselves.
16	For thou our Father, for Abraham knew us not, and Israel will not recognize us: thou Jehovah our Father redeeming us; thy name from eternity.
17	Wherefore, O Jehovah, wilt thou cause us to wander from thy ways, wilt thou harden our heart from thy fear? turn back for sake of thy servants, the tribes of thine inheritance.
18	For a little While the people of thy holy place possessed it: our adversaries trod down thy holy place.
19	We were from of old: thou didst not rule with them; thy name was not called upon them.