1	I was sought by them they asked not; I was found by them not seeking me: I said, Behold me, behold me, to a nation not calling upon my name.
2	I spread forth my hands all the day to a perverse people, going the way not good, after their purposes.
3	The people irritating me to my face continually; sacrificing in gardens, and burning incense upon bricks;
4	Dwelling among the graves, and they will lodge among the watchers, eating swine’s flesh, and broth of unclean things in their vessels.
5	Saying, Come near to thyself; thou shalt not touch upon me, for I was clean to thee. These a smoke in my wrath, a fire burning all the day.
6	Behold, it written before me: I will not be silent, but I requited, and I requited upon their bosom,
7	Your iniquities and the iniquities of your fathers together, said Jehovah, who burnt incense upon the mountains, and upon the hills they reproached me: and I measured their former work upon their bosom.
8	Thus said Jehovah, As the new wine will be found in the cluster, and he will say, Thou shalt not destroy it, for a blessing in it: thus will I do for sake of my servant, to not destroy them all.
9	And I brought forth a seed out of Jacob, and out of Judah he shall inherit my mountain: and my chosen shall inherit it, and my servants shall dwell their.
10	And Sharon was for a dwelling of sheep, and the valley of Achor for a resting place of the herd, for my people who sought me.
11	And ye forsaking Jehovah, forgetting my holy mountain, and preparing a table for Gad, and filling up for fate from mixed wine.
12	And I numbered you to the sword, and ye all shall bend to the slaughter, because I called, and ye answered not: I spake and ye heard not; and ye will do evil in mine eyes, and in what I delighted not, ye chose.
13	For this, thus said the Lord Jehovah, Behold, my servants shall eat and ye shall be hungry: behold, my servants shall drink and ye shall thirst: behold, my servants shall rejoice, and ye shall be ashamed.
14	Behold, my servants shall shout from good of heart, but ye shall cry from pain of heart, and wail from breaking of spirit.
15	And ye set down your name for a curse to my chosen: and the Lord Jehovah slaying thee, and he will call his servants another name.
16	That he praising himself in the earth shall praise himself in the true God; and he swearing in the earth, shall swear in the true God; for the former straits were forgotten, and because they were hid from mine eyes.
17	For behold me creating new heavens and a new earth: and the former things shall not be remembered, and they shall not come upon the heart.
18	But be ye glad and rejoice even forever, for what I create: for behold me creating Jerusalem a joy, and her people a rejoicing.
19	And I rejoiced in Jerusalem, and was glad in my people; and the voice of weeping shall no more be heard in her, and the voice of crying.
20	There shall be no more from thence a child of days, and an old man who shall not fill up his days: for the boy shall die the son of a hundred years and he sinning, the son of a hundred years, shall be cursed.
21	And they built houses and they dwelt in them; and they planted vineyards, and they ate the fruit.
22	They shall not build and another inhabit; they shall not plant and another eat: for as the days of a tree the days of my people, and my chosen shall wear out the work of their hands.
23	They shall not labor in vain, and they shall not bring forth for terror; for they the seed of the blessed of Jehovah, and their offspring with them.
24	And it was before they shall call, I will answer; they yet speaking, and I will hear.
25	The wolf and the lamb shall feed as one, and the lion and the ox shall eat straw, and the serpent, dust his bread. They shall not do evil, and they shall not destroy in all my holy mountain, said Jehovah.