1	For the fainting not to what the straits to her according to the time of the first he made light the land of Zebulon and the land of Naphtali; and afterward he made heavy the way of the sea beyond Jordan of Galilee of the nations.
2	The people going in darkness saw a great light: they dwelling in the land of the shadow of death, light shone upon them.
3	Thou didst multiply the nation, thou didst not increase the joy: they rejoiced before thee according to the joy in harvest as they will exalt in their dividing the spoil.
4	For the yoke of his burden and the rod of his shoulder, and the rod of him oppressing with it thou didst break in pieces the day of Midian.
5	For every shoe of the shod with trembling, and a garment being rolled in bloods; and it was for burning the food of fire.
6	For a child was born to us, a son was given to us, and the dominion shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called, Wonderful, Counsellor, Mighty God, everlasting Father, Captain of Peace.
7	To the increase of his dominion and to peace no end, upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to prepare it and to support it in judgment and in justice from now and even to forever: the zeal of Jehovah of armies will do this.
8	Jehovah sent a word into Jacob, and it fell upon Israel.
9	And the people shall know, all they of Ephraim and the inhabitants of Shomeron, in pride and in greatness of heart, saying,
10	The bricks fell, and we will build with hewn stone: the sycamores were cut down, and the cedars we will renew.
11	And Jehovah will set on high the adversaries of Rezin against him, and he will arouse his enemies:
12	Aram from the east, and the rovers from behind; and they will eat up Israel with all the mouth. In all this his anger was not turned back, and yet his hand stretched out.
13	And the people turned not back even to him smiting them, and Jehovah of armies they sought not.
14	And Jehovah will cut off from Israel head and tail, palm branch and reed in one day.
15	The old man and they lifting up faces, he the head; and the prophet teaching falsehood, be the tail.
16	And there will be those leading this people causing them to wander; and those being led being swallowed up.
17	For this upon their young men Jehovah shall not rejoice, and their orphans and their widows he will not compassionate; for they all are polluted and doing evil, and every mouth speaking folly. In all this his anger turned not back, and yet his hand stretched out.
18	For wickedness burnt as fire; the sharp point and the thorn it shall consume, and shall burn in the thickets of the forest, and they shall roll up in the mounting up of smoke.
19	In the outpourings of Jehovah of armies the land was consumed, and the people will be as the food of fire: and they shall not pity a man to his brother.
20	And he shall cut upon the right hand, and hungering; and he shall eat upon the left, and they were not satisfied: they shall eat a man the flesh of his arm.
21	Manasseh, Ephraim; and Ephraim, Manasseh: they being united against Judah. In all this his anger turned not back, and yet his hand stretched out.