1	Paul, servant of Jesus Christ, called sent, separated to the good news of God,
2	(Which he before promised by his prophets in the holy writings,)
3	Concerning his Son born of the seed of David according to the flesh.
4	Determined the Son of God in power, according to the spirit of holiness, by the rising up of the dead of Jesus Christ our Lord:
5	By whom we received grace and sending forth, to the obedience of faith in all nations for his name:
6	In whom are ye also, the called of Jesus Christ:
7	To all being in Rome, beloved of God, called holy: Grace to you and peace from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ.
8	First, I return thanks to my God by Jesus Christ for you all, that your faith is announced in the whole world.
9	For my witness is God, whom I serve in my spirit in the good news of his Son, so that continually I make mention of you, always supplicating in my prayers;
10	If in any way I shall be prospered on my way in the will of God to come to you.
11	For I long to see you, That I might impart to you some spiritual grace, in order for you to be firm;
12	And this is, to be comforted together in you by the faith in one another both of you and of me.
13	And I would not ye should be ignorant, brethren, that many times I proposed to come to you, (and I was hindered till this time,) that I might have some fruit also in you, and in the rest of the nations.
14	Both to Greeks, and foreigners; both to wise and unwise, I am debtor.
15	So that for my part being zealous, also to you that in Rome, to announce the good news.
16	For I am not ashamed of the good news of Christ: for it is the power of God to salvation to all believing; both to the Jew first, and the Greek.
17	For the justice of God in it is revealed from faith to faith: as has been written, And the just shall live by faith.
18	For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven upon all profanation and injustice of men, of those detaining the truth in injustice;
19	Wherefore that known of God is manifest in them; for God manifested to them.
20	For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world, being understood by things made, are inspected, truly both his eternal power and divinity; so that they are inexcusable:
21	Wherefore having known God, not as God did they honour or return thanks; but were rendered vain in their conversations, and their heart without understanding was darkened.
22	Declaring themselves to be wise, they were fools,
23	And they changed the glory of the incorruptible God into the likeness of an image of corruptible man, and of flying things, and of creeping things, and of quadrupeds.
24	Wherefore God delivered them in the eager desire of their hearts to uncleanness, to dishonour their bodies in themselves:
25	Who changed the truth of God into a falsehood, and reverenced and served the creation above him creating, who is praised forever. Amen.
26	Therefore God delivered them to the suffering of ignominy: for also their females changed the natural use into that against generation:
27	Likewise also males, leaving the natural use of the female, were set on fire in their longing for one another; males with males working deformity, and the retribution which was needed receiving in themselves for their erring.
28	And as they chose not to have God in knowledge, God delivered them to an adulterated purpose, to do things not fitting;
29	Having been filled with all injustice, fornication, wickedness, covetousness, badness; full of envy, slaughter, strife, deceit, malignity,
30	Whisperers, slanderers, odious to God, abusers of power, proud, tumultuous, inventors of injuries, disobedient to parents,
31	Destitute of understanding, unsteady, devoid of natural affection, implacable, merciless:
32	Who knowing the justice of God, that they doing such things are worthy of death, not only do them, but also approve those doing.