1	Brethren, truly my heart’s delight and prayer to God for Israel is for salvation.
2	For I testify for them that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge.
3	For not knowing the justice of God, and seeking to establish their own justice, they have not been subjected to the justice of God.
4	For Christ the end of the law for justice to every one believing.
5	For Moses writes the justice of the law, That the man having done these things shall live in them.
6	And the justice of faith says thus, Thou shouldest not say in thy heart, Who shall go up to heaven? (that is, to bring Christ down:)
7	Or, Who shall go down to the abyss? (that is, to bring up Christ from the dead.)
8	But what does it say? The word is near thee, in thy mouth, and in thy heart: that is, the word of faith, which we proclaim;
9	For if thou confess in thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in thy heart that God raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved.
10	For with the heart is believed for justice: and with the mouth is confessed for salvation.
11	For the writing says, Every one believing upon him shall not be ashamed.
12	For no distinction is of the Jew and also of the Greek: for the same Lord of all being rich to all calling upon him.
13	For every one whoever should call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.
14	How then shall they call upon whom they believed not? and how shall they believe whom they heard not? and how shall they hear without him proclaiming?
15	And how shall they proclaim, except they be sent? as has been written, How beautiful the feet of them announcing good news, peace, of them announcing good things!
16	But not all listened to the good news. For Esaias says, Lord, who believed our report?
17	Therefore faith, from the report, and report by the word of God.
18	But I say, Have they not heard? Surely, in all the earth went out their sound, and their words to the end of the habitable globe.
19	But I say, Did not Israel know? First Moses says, I will make you jealous of not a nation, and by a shortsighted nation will I anger you.
20	And Esaias is very confident, and says, I was found of them not seeking me; I was manifested to them not asking for me.
21	And to Israel he says, The whole day have I unfolded my hands to an unbelieving and contradicting people.