1	I say then, Has God rejected his people It may not be. For I also am an Israelite, of Abraham’s seed, of the tribe of Benjamin.
2	God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew. Or know ye not in Elias, what says the writing? how he addresses God against Israel, saying,
3	Lord, thy prophets have they killed, and dug down thine altars; and I alone was left, and they seek my soul.
4	But what say to him the intimations of divine will I have left to myself seven thousand men, who bent not the knee to Baal.
5	So then also in the time now has been a remnant according to the election of grace.
6	And if to grace, it is no more of works: otherwise grace is no more grace. And if of works, it is no more grace: otherwise work is no more work.
7	What then What Israel seeks for, this be attained not; but the selection attained, and the rest were hardened.
8	(As has been written, God gave them the spirit of mortal pain, eyes not to see, and earn not to hear;) even to this day.
9	And David says, Let their table be for a snare, and for booty, and for a stumblingblock, and for a retribution to them:
10	Let their eyes be darkened not to see, and let them bend their back always.
11	I say then, Did they stumble that they might fall? It may not be: but by their fall salvation to the nations, to make them jealous.
12	And if their fall the riches of the world, and their disaster the riches of the nations; how much more their fulness?
13	(For I speak to you the nations, inasmuch as truly I am the sent of the nations, I highly value my service:
14	If in some way I might make jealous my flesh, and I might save some of them.)
15	For if their rejection the reconciliation of the world, what the reception, but life from the dead?
16	And if the first fruit holy, also the mixture: and if the root holy, also the young shoots.
17	And if certain of the young shoots were broken off, and thou, being a wild olive tree, wert grafted in them, and wert a partaker of the root and fatness of the olive tree;
18	Act not proudly to the young shoots. And if thou boastest, thou bearest not the root, but the root thee.
19	Thou wilt say then, That the young shoots were broken off, that I might be grafted in.
20	Well; for unbelief were they broken off, and thou standest by faith. Be not highminded, but do thou fear:
21	For if God spared not the young shoots according to nature, how will he either spare thee.
22	Behold then the goodness and severity of God: truly upon the fallen, severity; and upon thee, goodness, if thou continue in goodness: otherwise shalt thou also be cut off.
23	And they also, if they continue not in unbelief, shall be grafted in: for God is able to graft them in again.
24	For if thou according to nature wert cut out of the wild olive tree, and against nature wert grafted into the cultivated olive tree: how much more these, according to nature, shall be grafted into their own olive tree.
25	For I will not ye should not know, brethren, this mystery, lest ye be wise with yourselves; for hardness from part has been to Israel, till the filling up of the nations come in.
26	And so all Israel shall be saved: as has been written, The Deliverer shall come out of Sion, and turn away profanation from Jacob.
27	And this the covenant to them with me, when I take away their sins.
28	Truly concerning the good news, enemies for you: and concerning the selection, beloved for the fathers.
29	For the favors and calling of God not causing repentance.
30	For as also ye, when ye were disobedient to God, but now ye have been commiserated by the unbelief of these:
31	So they now also were disobedient, by your mercy that they also be commiserated.
32	For God shut them all up together in unbelief, that he might commiserate all.
33	O the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! His judgments how unsearchable, and his ways not traced out!
34	For who knew the mind of the Lord? or who was his counsel?
35	Or who first gave to him, and it shall be given back to him?
36	For of him, and by him, and to him, all things: to him the glory forever Amen.