1	Him being weak in faith receive ye, not to judgments of conversations.
2	One truly believes to eat all things: and he being weak eats vegetables.
3	Let not him eating despise him not eating: and let not him not eating judge him eating: for God has received him.
4	Who art thou judging another’s servant? to his own lord he stands or falls. And he shall be made to stand: for God is powerful to make him stand.
5	For one truly judges day above day: and one judges every day. Let each one be perfectly certain in his own mind.
6	He minding the day, minds to the Lord; and he not minding the day, to the Lord he minds not. He eating, eats to the Lord, for he gives thanks to God; and he not eating, to the Lord he eats not, and he gives thanks to God.
7	For none of us lives to himself, and none dies to himself.
8	For whether we live, to the Lord we live: and whether we die, to the Lord we die: therefore whether we live, and whether we die, we are of the Lord.
9	For, for this Christ also died, and also arose, and returned again to life, that he might also reign over the dead and the living.
10	And why judgest thou thy brother? or why also despisest thou thy brother? for we shall all stand at the judgment seat of Christ.
11	For it has been written, I live, says the Lord, for to me shall every knee bend, and every tongue acknowledge to God.
12	So therefore shall each of us give word for himself to God.
13	Then let us no more judge one another: but rather judge ye this, not to put a stumble or offence to thy brother.
14	I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus, that nothing common by itself; except to any one reckoning to be common, to that one it is common.
15	And if by food thy brother is grieved, thou no more walkest by love. Not by thy food destroy him, for whom Christ died.
16	Therefore let not your good be defamed.
17	For the kingdom of God is not food and drink; but justice, and peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit.
18	For he in these serving Christ, pleasing to God, and acceptable to men.
19	So therefore, let us pursue the things of peace, and the things for the building up for one another.
20	Not for sake of food destroy thou the work of God. Truly all things clean; but evil to the man eating by offence.
21	Good not to eat flesh, nor drink wine, nor in what thy brother stumbles, or is offended, or is weak.
22	Thou has faith; have to thyself before God. Happy he judging not himself in what he proves.
23	And he being judged if he eat, has been condemned for not of faith; and everything not of faith is sin.