1	And we the able ought to bear the weaknesses of the unable and not please ourselves.
2	For let each of us please the neighbor for good to the building.
3	For Christ also pleased not himself, but as has been written, The reproaches of them reproaching thee fell upon me.
4	For whatever before was written before are for our instruction was before written that by patience and consolation able of the writings we might have hope.
5	And may the God of patience and his consolation give you to mind the same in one another according to Christ Jesus:
6	That unanimously in one mouth ye should glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
7	Wherefore receive ye one another, as also Christ received us to the glory of God.
8	And I say Jesus Christ has become the servant of circumcision for the truth of God, to confirm the promises of the fathers:
9	And the nations to glorify God for mercies; as has been written, For this will I acknowledge to thee in the nations; and I will play on, the harp to thy name.
10	And again he says, Rejoice, ye nations, with his people.
11	And again, Praise the Lord, all ye nations; and land him all ye people.
12	And again Esaias says, The root shall be of Jesse, and he having risen to rule over the nations; upon him shall the nations hope.
13	And may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, for you to abound in hope, in the power of the Holy Spirit.
14	And I am persuaded my brethren, and I myself for you, that ye yourselves also are full of goodness, tilled with all knowledge, being able also to remind one another.
15	And I wrote to you more boldly, brethren, from part as reminding you, by the grace given me by God,
16	For me to be the, workman of Jesus Christ to the nations, offering in sacrifice the good news of God, that the bringing forward of the nations be acceptable, consecrated in the Holy Spirit.
17	I have therefore boasting in Christ Jesus the things toward God.
18	For I shall dare to speak nothing that Christ has not brought about by me, for the obedience of the nations, by word and by work,
19	By power of signs and wonders, by power of the Spirit of God, so that I from Jerusalem, and round about even to Illyricum, have completed the good news of Christ.
20	And so seeking the honour to announce the good news, not where Christ was named, lest I should build upon a strange foundation:
21	But as has been written, to whom it was not announced of him, they shall see: and they who have not heard shall understand.
22	Wherefore also I was hindered in many things from coming to you.
23	And now having no more place in these climes, and having an anxious desire to come to you from many years.
24	Whenever I go into Spain, I will come to you, for I hope passing through to see you: and by you to be sent forward there, if first from part I might be filled with you.
25	And now I go to Jerusalem serving the holy ones.
26	For Macedonia and Achaia were contented a certain mutual participation be made for the poor of the holy ones in Jerusalem.
27	For they were contented; and they are their debtors. For if the nations have participated in their spiritual things, they ought also to serve them in things pertaining to the flesh.
28	Therefore having completed this, and sealed to them this fruit, I will come away by you to Spain.
29	And I know that, coming to you, I shall come in the completion of the praise of the good news of Christ.
30	And I beseech you, brethren, by our Lord Jesus Christ, and by love of the Spirit, to fight together with me in prayers for me to God;
31	That I might be saved from the unbelieving in Judea; and that my service for Jerusalem be acceptable to the holy ones;
32	That in joy I might come to you by the will of God, and rest with you.
33	And the God of peace with you all. Amen.