1	And I place with you Phebe our sister, being servant of the church in Cenchrea:
2	That ye receive her in the Lord, worthy of the holy ones, and encourage her in whatever thing she have need of you: for she also has been the rule of many, and of myself.
3	Embrace Priscilla and Aquila my helpers in Christ Jesus:
4	Who for my soul have laid down their own necks: to whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the nations.
5	And the church in their house. Embrace my beloved Epenetus, who is the first fruits of Achaia to Christ.
6	Embrace Mary, who wearied for us.
7	Embrace Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen, and my fellowprisoners, who are distinguished among the sent, who also have been in Christ before me.
8	Embrace ye Amplias my beloved in the Lord.
9	Embrace Urban, our helper in Christ, and Stachys my beloved.
10	Embrace Apelles acceptable in Christ. Embrace them of Aristobulus.
11	Embrace Herodion my kinsman. Embrace them of Narcissus, them being in the Lord.
12	Embrace Tryphen a and Tryphosa, wearied in the Lord. Embrace Persis the beloved, who was much wearied in the Lord.
13	Embrace Rufus chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine.
14	Embrace Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brethren with them.
15	Embrace Philologus, and Julia, Nereus, and his sister, and Olympas, and all the holy ones with them.
16	Embrace one another with a holy kiss. The churches of Christ embrace you.
17	And I beseech you, brethren, to observe narrowly them having made divisions and scandals against the teaching which ye learned; and bend away from them.
18	For such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly; and by specious language and praise completely deceive the hearts of the innocent.
19	For your obedience has come to all. Therefore I rejoice for you: and I wish you truly to be wise to good, and pure to evil.
20	And the God of peace will rub together Satan under your feet swiftly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ with you.
21	Timotheus my helper, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my kinsmen, embrace you.
22	I Tertius embrace you, having written the epistle in the Lord.
23	Gains my guest, and of the whole church, embraces you. Erastus steward of the city embraces you, and Quartus the brother.
24	The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ with you all. Amen.
25	And to him being able to support you according to my good news, and the proclamation of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery kept silent from eternal times,
26	And now made manifest, also by the prophetic writings according to the command of the eternal God, for the obedience of faith made known to all nations:
27	To the only wise God, by Jesus Christ, to whom glory forever. Amen.