1	Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man, every one judging: for in what thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself; for thou judging doest the same.
2	And we know that the judgment of God is according to truth upon them doing such things.
3	And thinkest thou this, O man, judging them doing such things, and doing the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God?
4	Or the abundance of his goodness and forbearance and long suffering dost thou despise; not knowing that the goodness of God brings thee to repentance?
5	And according to thy hardness and impenitent heart thou treasurest up to thyself anger in the day of anger and revelation of the just judgment of God;
6	Who will give back to each according to his works:
7	To them truly by perseverance of the good work they seek glory and honour and immortality, eternal life:
8	But to them of intrigue, and are truly disobedient to the truth, and yielding to injustice, anger and wrath,
9	Affliction and distress, upon every soul of man working evil, both of the Jew first, and of the Greek;
10	But glory, and honour, and peace, to every one working good, both to the Jew first, and to the Greek:
11	For there is no distinction of persons with God.
12	For as many as sinned without law shall also perish without law: and as many as sinned in the law shall be judged by the law;
13	(For not hearers of the law just with God, but the doers of the law shall be justified.
14	For when nations, not having the things of the law, by nature do the things of the law, these, not having the law, are law to themselves:
15	Which show the work of the law Written in their hearts, their consciousness testifying together, and between one another thoughts accusing or also excusing;)
16	In the day when God shall judge the concealed things of men according to my good news by Jesus Christ.
17	Behold, thou art named a Jew, and restest upon the law, and boastest thyself in God,
18	And knowest the will, and triest things differing, being sounded out of the law;
19	And art persuaded thou thyself to be a guide of the blind, a light of them in darkness,
20	An instructor of the foolish, a teacher of the inexperienced, having the form of knowledge and of truth in the law.
21	Therefore teaching another, teachest thou not thyself proclaiming not to steal, stealest thou?
22	Speaking not to commit adultery, committest thou adultery? abhorring images, committest thou sacrilege?
23	Thou who boastest in the law, by transgression of the law dishonourest thou God?
24	For the name of God by you is blasphemed in the nations, as it has been written.
25	For truly circumcision profits, if thou do the law: and if thou be a transgressor of the law, thy circumcision has become uncircumcision.
26	Therefore if uncircumcision watch the justification of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be reckoned for circumcision?
27	And shall not uncircumcision by nature, completing the law, judge thee, which by letter and circumcision a transgressor of the law?
28	For he in appearance, is not a Jew; neither circumcision, in appearance in the flesh:
29	But he in concealment, a Jew; and circumcision of the heart, in spirit, not in letter; whose approbation not of man, but of God.