1	What then the superiority of the Jew or what the advantage of circumcision?
2	Much according to every manner: for truly first were they trusted with the oracles of God.
3	For what if some disbelieved? their unbelief will not leave inactive the faith of God.
4	It may not be: and let God be true, and every man a liar; as has been written, That thou mightest be justified in thy words, and mightest conquer in thy being judged.
5	And if our injustice shall recommend the justice of God, what shall we say God not unjust bringing in anger? (I speak as man).
6	It may not be: for how shall God judge the world.
7	For if the truth of God in my lying abounded to his glory; why yet am I judged as sinful?
8	And not, (as we are defamed, and some have declared us to say,) That we should do evil things, that good things might come: whose judgment is just.
9	What advantage therefore have we? Not in any way: for we before accused both Jews and Greeks, all to be under sin.
10	As has been written, That there is no just one, not one:
11	There is none understanding, there is none seeking God.
12	All have bent aside, together have they become unprofitable: there is none doing good, there is not even one.
13	Their throat an opened tomb; with their tongues have they used deceit; the poison of asps under their lips:
14	Whose mouth is full of cursing and harshness:
15	Their feet active to pour out blood:
16	Bruising and grievous toil in their ways:
17	And the way of peace they knew not:
18	The fear of God is not before their eyes.
19	And we know that whatever says the law, it speaks to them in the law: that every mouth be shut, and all the world be culpable to God.
20	Therefore from the works of the law shall no flesh be justified before him: for by the law the knowledge of sin.
21	But now without law the justice of God has been made apparent, being testified by the law and by the prophets;
22	And the justice of God by faith of Jesus Christ to all and upon all believing: for there is no distinction:
23	For all have sinned, and failed of the glory of God;
24	Being justified as a gift by his grace by the redemption which is in Christ Jesus:
25	Whom God had set before a propitiatory by faith in his blood, for a manifestation of his justice by passing over of sins before existing, in the sufferance of God;
26	For the manifestation of his justice now in time: for him to be just, and justifying him of the faith of Jesus.
27	Where then boasting? It was excluded. By what law? of works? No: but by the law of faith.
28	We reckon then man to be justified by faith without the works of the law.
29	Or only the God of the Jews? and not also of the nations? Yes, also of the nations:
30	Since one God, who will justify circumcision of faith, and uncircumcision by faith.
31	Therefore shall we leave the law inactive by faith It may not be: but we should establish the law.