1	Justified therefore of faith we have peace with God by our Lord Jesus Christ:
2	By whom also we have had access by faith into this grace in which we have stood, and we boast upon hope of the glory of God.
3	And not only, but also we boast in affliction: knowing that affliction works perseverance;
4	And perseverance, proof; and proof, hope.
5	And hope shames not; for the love of God has been poured in our hearts by the Holy Spirit given us.
6	For yet Christ, we being weak, Recording to the time died for the impious.
7	For scarcely for the just will any one die: yet for the good perhaps some also would venture to die.
8	And God recommends his own love to us, that we yet being sinful, Christ died for us.
9	Much more then, justified now in his blood, we shall be saved by him from wrath.
10	For if, being enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, reconciled, we shall be saved in his life.
11	And not only, but also boasting in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received reconciliation.
12	Therefore, as by one man sin came into the world, and by sin death; and so death passed upon all men, in that all have sinned:
13	(For until the law sin was in the world: and sin is not charged, being no law.
14	But death reigned from Adam to Moses, and upon them not having sinned upon the likeness of Adam’s transgression, who is the type of him about to be.
15	But not as the fall, so also the favor. For if for the fall of one many died, much more the grace of God, and the gift in grace, of one man, Jesus Christ, has abounded to many.
16	And not as by one having sinned, the gift: for truly the judgment of one to condemnation, but the favor of many falls to justification.
17	For if by the fall of one, death reigned by one; much more they receiving the abundance of grace and the gift of justice in life shall reign by one, Jesus Christ.)
18	Therefore as by the fall of one for all men to condemnation; so also by the justification of one for all men to justification of life.
19	For as by one man’s disobedience many were constituted sinful, so also by the obedience of one shall many be constituted just.
20	And the law entered, that the fall might abound. And where sin abounded, grace superabounded:
21	That as sin reigned in death, so grace might reign by justice to life eternal, through Jesus Christ our Lord.