1	What then shall we say? Shall we continue in sin, that grace might abound.
2	It may not be. We who died to sin, shall we yet live in it?
3	Or know ye not, that as many of us as were immersed in Christ Jesus, we were immersed into his death?
4	Therefore were we buried with him by immersion into death: that as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, so also we should walk in newness of life.
5	For if grown together we have been in the likeness of his death, but also shall we be of the resurrection:
6	Knowing this, that our old man was crucified together, that the body of sin might be left inactive, for us no more to serve sin.
7	For he having died was justified from sin.
8	And if we died with Christ, we believe we shall also live with him:
9	Knowing that Christ, raised from the dead, dies no more; death has no more power over him.
10	For he who died, died to sin once: but he who lives, lives to God.
11	So also ye reckon yourselves truly to be dead to sin, and living to God in Christ Jesus our Lord.
12	Therefore let not sin reign in your mortal body, to listen to it in its passions.
13	Neither present ye your members weapons of injustice to sin: but present yourselves to God, as living from the dead, and your members weapons of justice to God.
14	For sin shall not rule over you: for ye are not under law, but under grace.
15	What then? shall we sin, because we are not under law, but under grace It may not be.
16	Know ye not, that to whom ye present yourselves servants for obedience, ye are servants to whom ye listen; either of sin to death, or of obedience to justice?
17	And grace to God, that ye were servants of sin, but ye listened from the heart to the type of teaching in which ye were delivered.
18	And freed from sin, ye were subdued to justice.
19	(I speak as man through the weakness of your flesh:) for as ye presented your members to uncleanness and iniquity; so now present ye your members servants to justice for consecration.
20	For when ye were servants to sin, ye were free to justice.
21	Therefore what fruit had ye then of what ye are now ashamed? for the end of these, death.
22	And now freed from sin, and subdued to God, ye have your fruit to consecration, and the end life eternal.
23	For the purchasing the provisions of sin, death; and the grace of God, life eternal in Christ Jesus our Lord.