1	Therefore now no condemnation to them in Christ Jesus, walking not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit.
2	For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus freed me from the law of sin and death.
3	For the impossibility of the law, in that it was weak by the flesh, God having sent his own Son in the likeness of the flesh of sin, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh:
4	That the justification of the law be filled up in us, not walking according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit.
5	For they being according to the flesh mind things of the flesh; and they according to the Spirit the things of the Spirit.
6	For the thought of the flesh, death; and the thought of the Spirit, life and peace.
7	Wherefore the thought of the flesh enmity to God: for it is not subject to the law of God, for it cannot be.
8	And they being in the flesh cannot please God.
9	But ye are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwell in you. And if any have not the Spirit of Christ, he is not his.
10	And if Christ in you, truly the body dead by sin; and the Spirit life by justice.
11	And if the Spirit of him having raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he having raised up Christ from the dead will make alive also your mortal bodies by his Spirit dwelling in you.
12	Therefore, brethren, we are not debtors to the flesh, to live according to the flesh.
13	For if ye live according to the flesh, ye shall die: and if by the Spirit ye kill the deeds of the body, ye shall live.
14	For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are the sons of God.
15	For ye have not received the Spirit of servitude again for fear; but have received the Spirit of adoption as a son, in which we cry, Abba, Father.
16	The Spirit itself testifies with our spirit, that we are children of God:
17	And if children, also heirs; truly heirs of God, and coheirs of Christ; if indeed we suffer together, that we may be also glorified together.
18	For I reckon that the sufferings of the time now not worthy of the glory about to be revealed in us.
19	For the anxious expectation of the creation awaits the revelation of the sons of God.
20	For the creation was subject to vanity, not voluntarily, but by him having subjected in hope,
21	That also the creation itself be freed from servitude of corruption to the freedom of the glory of the children of God.
22	For we know that all creation groans together and travails together until now.
23	And not only, but also they having the first fruits of the Spirit, and we ourselves groan in ourselves, waiting for the adoption as a son, the redemption of our body.
24	For by hope were we saved: but hope being seen is not hope: for what any one sees, why does he also hope?
25	And if what we see not, we hope for, by patience we wait.
26	And likewise also the Spirit takes hold together, and assists our weaknesses: for what we would pray for as we ought, we know not, but the Spirit itself intercedes for us with inexpressible groanings.
27	And he searching hearts knows what the thought of the Spirit, for according to God he supplicates for the holy ones.
28	And we know that to them loving God, all things work together for good, to them being called according to the setting up.
29	For whom he before knew, he also before determined of the form of the image of his Son, for him to be first born in many brethren.
30	And whom he before determined, these he also called: and whom he called, these he also justified: and whom he justified, these he also glorified.
31	What then shall we say to these? if God with us, who against us?
32	Who truly spared not his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, and how not with him will he freely give us all?
33	Who shall demand payment for the chosen of God? God justifying.
34	Who, he condemning Christ having died, and rather also raised again, who is at the right hand of God, and who intercedes for us.
35	Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? pressure, or perplexity, or expulsion, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?
36	As has been written, That for thy sake we are killed the whole day; we were reckoned as sheep for slaughter.
37	But in all these we obtain a complete victory by him having loved us.
38	For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor beginnings, nor powers, nor things having stood, nor things about to be,
39	Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creation, shall be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.