1	Truly, truly, I say to you, He not coming in through the door into the court-yard of the sheep, but coming up from another place, he is a thief and robber.
2	And he coming in through the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
3	To him the guard of the door opens; and the sheep hear his voice: and he calls his own sheep by name, and leads them out.
4	And when he would put forth his own sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him: for they know his voice.
5	And a stranger they would not follow, but they will flee from him: for they know not the voice of strangers.
6	This proverb spake Jesus to then: and they knew not what things they were which he spake to them.
7	Then said Jesus again to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, That I am the door of the sheep.
8	All who came before me are thieves and robbers: but the sheep heard them not.
9	I am the door: if any come in through me, he shall be saved, and he shall me in, and go out, and find pasture.
10	The thief comes not, except that he steal, and sacrifice, and destroy: I came that they might have life, and have above measure.
11	I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.
12	But the hired one, and not being the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, sees the wolf coming, and he leaves the sheep, and flees: and the wolf plunders them, and scatters the sheep.
13	The hired flees, because he is hired, and no care is to him for the sheep.
14	I am the good shepherd, and I know mine, and am known by mine.
15	As the Father knows me, I also know the Father: and I lay down my life for the sheep.
16	And I have, other sheep, which are not of this court-yard: and I must also bring them, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one flock, and one shepherd.
17	Therefore does my Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I might take it again.
18	No one takes it away from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This command received I of my Father.
19	Then was a division again among the Jews for these words.
20	And many of them said, He has a demon, and is frenzied; why hear ye him?
21	Others said, These are not the words of a demon. A demon cannot open the eyes of the blind.
22	And there was the festival of inauguration among the Jerusalemites, and it was winter.
23	And Jesus walked in the temple in Solomon’s porch.
24	Then the Jews surrounded him, and said to him, How long takest thou away our soul? If thou art Christ, say to us with freedom of speech.
25	Jesus answered them, I said to you, and ye believe not: the works which I do in my Father’s name, these testify of me.
26	But ye believe not, for ye are not of my sheep, as I said to you.
27	My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me.
28	And I give them eternal life; and they shall never perish, and no one shall snatch them out of my hand.
29	My Father, who has given to me, is greater than all; and no one can snatch them out of my Father’s hand.
30	I and my Father are one.
31	Then again lifted up the Jews stones that they might stone him.
32	Jesus Answered them, Many good works I shewed you from my Father; for which of these works do ye stone me.
33	The Jews answered him, saying, For a good work we stone thee not; but for blasphemy; and that thou, being man, makest thyself God.
34	Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said; Ye are gods?
35	If he called them gods, to whom the word of God came, and the writing cannot be loosed;
36	Whom the Father consecrated, and sent into the world, say ye that thou blasphemest; because I said, I am the Son of God.
37	If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not.
38	And if I do, though ye believe me not, believe the works: that ye might know, and believe, that the Father in me, and I in him.
39	Then sought they again to take him: and he went out from their hand,
40	And again he departed beyond Jordan to the place where John was first immersing; and he remained there.
41	And many came to him, and said, That truly John did no sign: but all which John said of him was true.
42	And many believed in him there.