1	And a certain Lazarus was sick, from Bethany, of the town of Mary And Martha her sister.
2	(And Mary was she having anointed the Lord with perfumed oil, and wiped his feet with her hairs, whose brother Lazarus was sick.)
3	Then sent the sisters to him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick.
4	And Jesus having heard, said, This sickness is not to death, but for the glory of God, that by it the Son of God be honoured.
5	And Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.
6	When therefore he heard that he is sick, then indeed he remained in the place in which he was two days.
7	Then after this he says to his disciples, Let us go into Judea again.
8	The disciples say to him, Rabbi, now the Jews sought to stone thee; and retirest thou there again?
9	Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours of the day? If any walk in the day, he stumbles not, for he sees the light of this world.
10	But if any walk in the night, he stumbles, for light is not in him.
11	These things said he: and after this he says to them, Lazarus our friend has been set to sleep; but I go, that I might waken him.
12	Then said his disciples, Lord, if he has been set to sleep, he shall be saved.
13	And Jesus spake of his death: but these supposed that he speaks of the repose of sleep.
14	Then therefore Jesus said to them with freedom of speech, Lazarus is dead.
15	And I rejoice for you, that ye might believe, that I was not there; but let us go to him.
16	Then said Thomas, called Didymus, to his fellow disciples, Let us also go, that we might die with him.
17	Then Jesus, having come, found him having four days already in the tomb.
18	And Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen stadia.
19	And many of the Jews were come to them about Martha and Many, that they might console them for their brother.
20	Then Martha, when she heard that Jesus comes, met him: and Mary sat in the house.
21	Then said Martha to Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.
22	But now I also know, that whatever thou shalt ask of God, God will give thee.
23	Jesus says to her, Thy brother shall arise.
24	Martha says to him, I know that he shall rise at the rising up in the last day.
25	Jesus said to her, I am the rising up, and life: he believing in me, though he die, shall live.
26	And all living and believing in me should never die. Believest thou this?
27	She says to him, Yes, Lord: I have believed that thou art Christ, the Son of God, he coming into the world.
28	And having said these, she departed and called Mary her sister secretly, having said, The Teacher is come, and calls thee.
29	She, when she heard, arises quickly, and comes to him.
30	And Jesus had not yet come into the town, but was in the place where Martha met him.
31	Then the Jews being in the house with her, and consoling her, having seen Mary, that she rose quickly and went forth, followed her, saying, That she retires to the tomb, that she might weep there.
32	Then Mary, when she came where Jesus was, seeing him, fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if thou wert here, my brother had not died.
33	Then Jesus, when he saw her weeping, and the Jews weeping having come with her, was heavy in spirit, and troubled himself,
34	And said, Where have ye laid him? They say to him, Lord, come and see.
35	Jesus wept.
36	Then said the Jews, See how he loved him!
37	And certain of them said, Could not he having opened the eyes of the blind, have made that this should not die?
38	Then Jesus again being heavy in himself, comes to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone was laid upon it.
39	Jesus says, Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of the dead, says to him, Lord, he already smells: for it is the fourth day.
40	Jesus says to her, Said I not to thee, if thou shouldest believe, thou shalt see the glory of God.
41	Then took they away the stone where the dead was laid. And Jesus lifted up his eyes above, and said, Father, I return thee thanks that thou didst hear me.
42	And I knew that thou always hearest me: but for the crowd standing round I said, that they might believe that thou didst send me.
43	And having said these, he cried out with a great voice, Lazarus, come out.
44	And the dead came out, bound feet and hands with bandages; and his face was bound with a napkin. Jesus says to them, Loose him, and let him retire.
45	Then many of the Jews, having come to Mary, and seeing what Jesus did, believed in him.
46	But certain of them departed to the Pharisees, and said to them what Jesus did.
47	Then gathered together the chief priests and Pharisees a council, and said, What do we? for this man does many signs.
48	If we let him thus go, all will believe on him: and the Romans will come and take away also our place and nation.
49	And a certain one of them, Caiaphas, being chief priest that year, said to them, Ye know nothing,
50	Neither turn ye in your thoughts that it is profitable to us, that one man die for the people, and the nation perish not.
51	And this he said not of himself: but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus was about to die for the nation;
52	And not for the nation alone, but that also the children of God, scattered, should be gathered into one.
53	Then from that day they counselled together that they might kill him.
54	Jesus then walked no more with freedom of speech among the Jews; but departed thence to the country near the desert, to a city called Ephraim, and there he tarried with his disciples.
55	And the Jews’ pascha was near: and many went up to Jerusalem out of the country before the pascha, that they might purify themselves.
56	Then sought they Jesus, and said with one another, standing in the temple, What seems it to you, that he should not come to the festival.
57	And also the chief priests and Pharisees had given a command, that if any know where he is, he should make known, that they might take him.