1	Then Jesus, six days before the pascha, came to Bethany, where was Lazarus the dead, whom he raised from the dead.
2	Then made they him a supper there, and Martha served; and Lazarus was one of them reclining at table with him.
3	Then Mary having taken a pound of perfumed oil of spikenard, very precious, anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hairs: and the house was filled with the smell of the perfumed oil.
4	Then says one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, of Simon, being about to deliver him up,
5	Wherefore was not this perfumed oil sold for three hundred drachmas, and given to the poor?
6	And this he said, not that care was to him for the poor: but because he was a thief, and had the small coffer, and carried things deposited.
7	Then said Jesus, Let her go; for the day of my interment has she kept this.
8	For the poor have ye always with you; and me ye have not always.
9	Then a great crowd of Jews knew that he is there: and they came not for Jesus alone, but that also they might see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead.
10	And the chief priests took counsel that they might also kill Lazarus;
11	Because many for him retired, and believed in Jesus.
12	The morrow a great crowd, having come to the festival, having heard that Jesus comes to Jerusalem,
13	Took branches of palm trees, and went forth to the meeting to him, and cried, Praised he coming in the name of the Lord, King of Israel.
14	And Jesus having found a small ass, sat upon it; as it is written,
15	Fear not, O daughter of Sion: behold, thy King comes, sitting upon the foal of an ass.
16	And these the disciples knew not at first: but when Jesus was honoured, then remembered they that these were written of him, and they did these things to him.
17	The crowd therefore testified which being with him, that he called Lazarus out of the tomb, and raised him from the dead.
18	And for this the crowd met him, for they heard he had done this sign.
19	Then said the Pharisees among themselves, Ye see that ye aid nothing; behold, the world has departed after him.
20	And there were certain Greeks of those going up that they might worship in the festival:
21	These then came to Philip, him of Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, Lord, we wish to see Jesus.
22	Philip comes and says to Andrew: and again Andrew and Philip say to Jesus.
23	And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour has come, that the Son of man should be honoured.
24	Truly, truly, I say to you, except a kernel of wheat, having fallen into the earth, should die, it remains alone: and if it should die, it brings forth much fruit.
25	He loving his soul shall lose it; but he hating his soul in this world, shall guard it for life eternal.
26	If any one would serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there also shall be my servant: and if any one serve me, him will the Father honour.
27	Now has my soul been troubled; and what should I say? O Father, save me from this hour: but for this came I to this hour.
28	Father, honour thy name. Then came a voice from heaven, I have also honoured, and will again honour.
29	Then the crowd, having stood and heard, said it was thunder: others said, A messenger has spoken to him.
30	Jesus answered and said, This voice has not been for me, but for you.
31	Now is the judgment of this world: now shall the ruler of this world be cast out.
32	And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all to myself.
33	This said he, signifying what death he was about to die.
34	The crowd answered him, We have heard out of the law that Christ remains forever: and how sayest thou That the Son of man must be lifted up? who is this Son of man?
35	Then said Jesus to them, Yet a little time the light is with you. Walk while ye have light, lest darkness overtake you: and he walking in darkness knows not where he retires.
36	While ye have light, believe in the light, that ye might be the sons of light. These things spake Jesus, and having departed, he was hid from them.
37	And he having done so many signs before them, they did not believe in him:
38	That the word of Esaias the prophet might be completed, which he spake, Lord, who believed our report? and to whom was the arm of the Lord revealed?
39	Therefore they could not believe, for Esaias said again,
40	He has blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart: lest they see with the eyes, and understand with the heart, and should turn back, and I should heal them.
41	These said Esaias, when he saw his glory, and spake of him.
42	Yet nevertheless also many of the rulers believed in him; but on account of the Pharisees they did not acknowledge, lest they should be excluded from the synagogue:
43	For they loved the honour of men more than the honour of God.
44	Jesus cried and said, He believing in me, believes not in me, but in him having sent me.
45	And he seeing me, sees him having sent me.
46	I have come a light into the world, that every one believing in me should not remain in darkness.
47	And if any hear my words, and believe not, I judge him not: for I came not that I might judge the world, but that I might save the world.
48	He rejecting me, and not receiving my words, has him judging him: the word which I spake, that shall judge him in the last day.
49	For I spake not of myself; but the Father having sent me, he gave me a command, what I should say, and what I should speak.
50	And I know that his command is life eternal: therefore what I speak, as the Father said to me, so I speak.