1	And before the feast of the pascha, Jesus knowing that his hour had come that he should pass out of this world to the Father, having loved his own in the world, he loved them to the end.
2	And supper having been, the devil having already cast into the heart of Judas Iscariot, of Simon, that he should deliver him up;
3	Jesus knowing that the Father has given all things to him into the hands, and that he came out from God, and retired to God;
4	He arises from supper, and lays down the garments; and having taken a linen cloth, he girded himself.
5	Then casts he water into a washing vessel, and began to wash the feet of the disciples, and to wipe with the linen cloth with which he was girded.
6	And he comes to Simon Peter: and he says to him, Lord, washest thou my feet?
7	Jesus answered and said to him, What I do thou knowest not now; but thou shalt know after these.
8	Peter says to him, Thou shouldest never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, Except I wash thee, thou hast no part with me.
9	Simon Peter says to him, Lord, not my feet only, but the hands and head.
10	Jesus says to him, He washed has no need but to have the feet washed, but is wholly clean: and ye are clean, but not all.
11	For he knew him delivering him up, therefore he said, Ye are not all clean.
12	When therefore he washed their feet; and took his garments, going to recline again, he said to them, Knew ye what I have done to you?
13	Ye call one Teacher and Lord: and ye say well; for I am.
14	If therefore, I washed your feet, the Lord and Teacher; ye also ought to wash the feet of one another:
15	For I have given you a pattern, as I have done to you, also should ye do.
16	Truly, truly I say to you, The servant is not greater than his Lord; neither the sent greater than he having sent him.
17	If ye know these, happy are ye if ye do them.
18	I say not of you all: I know whom I have chosen: but that the writing might be completed, He chewing bread with me lifted up his heel against me.
19	From now I say to you, before it shall be, that, when it should be, ye might believe that I am.
20	Truly, truly, I say to you, He receiving whomsoever I shall send receives me; and he receiving me receives him having sent me.
21	These things Jesus having spoken, was troubled in spirit, and he testified, and said, Truly, truly, I say to you, that one of you shall deliver me up.
22	Then looked the disciples one upon another, being perplexed of whom he spake.
23	And there was one of his disciples reclining on the bosom of Jesus, whom he loved.
24	Then Simon Peter nodded to this one, to inquire who it might be of whom he speaks.
25	And he reclining upon Jesus’ breast says to him, Lord, who is it?
26	Jesus answers, This is he to whom I, having dipped a small morsel, shall bestow. And having dipped the small morsel, he gives to Judas Iscariot, of Simon.
27	And after the small morsel then came Satan into him. Then says Jesus to him, What thou doest, do quickly.
28	And this none of the reclining knew for what he said to him.
29	For some thought, since Judas had the small coffer, that Jesus says to him, Purchase of what we have need for the festival; or, that he might give something to the poor.
30	He having taken the small morsel went quickly forth: and it was night when he then went forth.
31	Jesus says, Now was the Son of man honoured, and God was honoured in him.
32	If God were honoured in him, also shall God honour him in himself, and quickly shall he honour him.
33	Little children, yet a little am I with you. Ye shall seek me: and as I said to the Jews, That where I retire, ye cannot come; and I say to you now.
34	A new command give I to you, That ye love one another: as I loved you, that ye also love one another.
35	In this all shall know that ye are disciples to me, if ye have love in one another.
36	Simon Peter says to him, Lord, where retirest thou? Jesus answered him, Where I retire, thou shalt not be able to follow me now; and afterwards thou shalt follow me.
37	Peter says to him, Lord, why can I not follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thee.
38	Jesus answered, Wilt thou lay down thy life for me Truly, truly, I say to thee, The cock shall not utter a sound, till thou deny me thrice.