1	These have I spoken, that ye should not be offended.
2	They shall make you excluded from the synagogue: but the hour comes that every one having slain you should think to bring service to God.
3	And these things shall they do to you, for they know not the Father, nor me.
4	But these have I spoken to you, that when the hour should come, ye should remember them, for I said to you. And these I said not to you from the beginning, for I was with you.
5	But now do I retire to him having sent me; and not one of you asks me, Where dost thou retire.
6	But because I have spoken these to you, sorrow has filled your heart.
7	But I say the truth to you; it is profitable to you that I go away: for if I go not away, the Intercessor shall not come to you; and if I go, I will send him to you.
8	And having come, he will convict the world of sin, and of justice, and of judgment:
9	Truly of sin, because they believe not in me;
10	And of justice, because I retire to my Father, and ye see me no more;
11	And of judgment, for the ruler of this world has been judged.
12	I have yet many things to say to you, but ye cannot bear them now.
13	And when he should come, the Spirit of truth, he shall guide you into all truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatever he should hear, shall he speak: and he shall announce to you the things coming.
14	He shall honour me: for he shall take of mine, and announce to you.
15	All things which the Father has are mine: therefore said I, he shall take of mine, and announce to you.
16	A little while, and ye see me not: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me, and because I retire to the Father.
17	Then said of his disciples to one another, What is this which he says to you, A little, and ye see me not: and again, a little, and ye shall see me: and, Because I retire to my Father?
18	Then said they, What is this which he says, A little we know not what he says.
19	Then knew Jesus that they wished to ask him, and he said to them, For this seek ye with one another that I said, A little while, and ye see me not; and again a little, and ye shall see me.
20	Truly, truly, I say to you, That ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice: and ye shall be grieved, but your grief shall be into joy.
21	A woman when she should bring forth, has grief, because her hour has come: and when the child should be born, she no more remembers the anguish, for the joy that a man was born into the world.
22	And where truly ye now have sorrow: but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no one takes away from you.
23	And in that day ye shall ask me nothing. Truly, truly, I say to you, That whatever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give you.
24	Until now ye have asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy might be completed.
25	These have I spoken to you in proverbs: but the hour comes, when I shall no more speak to you in proverbs, but with freedom of speech will I announce to you of the Father.
26	In that day shall ye ask in my name: and I say not to you that I will ask the Father for you:
27	For the Father himself loves you, for ye have loved me, and believed that I came forth from God.
28	I came forth from the Father, and have come into the world: again, I leave the world, and go to the Father.
29	His disciples say to him, See, now thou speakest with freedom of speech, and sayest no proverb.
30	Now we know that thou knowest all things, and hast no need that any ask thee: by this we believe that thou earnest forth from God.
31	Jesus answered them, Now do ye believe?
32	Behold, the hour comes, and has now come, that ye be scattered, each to his own, and leave me alone: and I am not alone, for the Father is with me.
33	These have I spoken to you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world shall ye have pressure; but take courage; I have conquered the world.