1	These spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour has come; honour thy Son, that thy Son honour thee:
2	As thou gavest him the power of all flesh, that every one which thou hast given him, he should give to them eternal life.
3	And this is eternal life, that they might know thee the only true God, and whom thou hast sent, Jesus Christ.
4	I honoured thee upon earth: I finished the work which thou hast given me that I should do.
5	And now, honour thou me, O Father, with thyself, with the honour which I had with thee before the world was.
6	I manifested thy name to the men which thou hast given me from the world: they were to thee, and thou hast given them to me; and they have kept thy word.
7	Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee.
8	For the words which thou hast given me, I have given them and they received, and knew in truth that I came out from thee, and they believed that thou sentest me.
9	I ask for them: I ask not for the world, but for them thou hast given me: for they are to thee.
10	And all my things are thine, and thine mine; and I have been honoured in them.
11	And I am no more in the world, and these are in the world, and I come to thee. O holy Father, keep them in thy name whom thou but given me, that they might be one, as we.
12	When I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name: those thou hast given me I watched, and not one of them perished, except the son of perdition; that the writing might be completed.
13	And now come I to thee; and these things I speak in the world, that I might have my joy completed in them.
14	I have given them thy word; and the world hated them, for they are not of the world, as I am not of the world.
15	I ask not that thou take them out of the world, but that thou keep them from the evil.
16	They are not of the world, as I am not of the world.
17	Render them holy in thy truth: thy word is truth.
18	As thou sentest me into the world, I also sent them into the world.
19	And for them I render myself holy, that they also be rendered holy in the truth;
20	And I ask not for these alone, but also for them believing in me through their word;
21	That all might be one; as thou, Father, in me, and I in thee, that they also be one in us; that the world might believe that thou sentest me.
22	And I, the honour which thou hast given me, have given them; that they might be one, as we are one.
23	I in them, and thou in me, that they might be perfected in one: and that the world might know that thou sentest me, and lovedst them, as thou lovedst me.
24	O Father, those thou hast given me, I will that where I am these also be with me: that they might behold my glory, which thou gavest me: for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world.
25	O just Father, the world knew thee not: but I knew thee, and these knew that thou didst send me.
26	And I made known to them thy name, and I will make known: that the love with which thou lovedst me might be in them, and I in them.