1	Then Pilate therefore took Jesus, and scourged him.
2	And the soldiers having twined a crown of thorns, put upon his head, and they put round him a purple robe,
3	And said, Hail, King of the Jews! and they gave him blows with a rod.
4	Then again went out Pilate without, and says to them, See, I lead him to you without, that ye might know that in him I find no fault.
5	Then went forth Jesus without, bearing a crown of thorns, and a purple garment. And he says to them, Behold the man!
6	When therefore the chief priests and attendants saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify, crucify. Pilate says to them, Take ye him, and crucify; for I find no fault in him.
7	The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by our law he ought to die, for he made himself the Son of God.
8	When Pilate heard this word, he was more afraid:
9	And went into the pretorium again, and says to Jesus, Whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer.
10	Then says Pilate to him, Speakest thou not to me? knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee, and have power to loose thee.
11	Jesus answered, Thou hast no power against me, if it were not given thee from above: therefore he delivering me to thee has greater sin.
12	From this Pilate sought to loose him: and the Jews cried out, saying, If thou loose this, thou art not Caesar’s friend: every one making himself a king speaks against Caesar.
13	Then Pilate having heard, brought Jesus without, and sat upon the judgment seat, in a place called Paved with ornamental stones; in Hebraic, Gabbatha.
14	And it was the preparation of the pascha, and about the sixth hour: and he says to the Jews, Behold your King!
15	And they cried, Take away, take away, crucify him. Pilate says to them, Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar.
16	Then, therefore, delivered he him to them, that he might be crucified.
17	And they took Jesus, and led away: and bearing his cross he went out into a place called Kranium, which in Hebraic is called Golgotha:
18	Where they crucified him, and with him two others, hence and thence, and Jesus in the midst.
19	And Pilate also wrote a title, and put upon the cross. And it was written, JESUS THE NAZARITE, KING OF THE JEWS.
20	Then read many of the Jews this title: for the place was near the city where Jesus was crucified: and it was written in Hebrew, Greek, Roman.
21	Then said the chief priests of the Jews to Pilate, Write not, King of the Jews; but that he said, I am King of the Jews.
22	Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written.
23	Then the soldiers, when they crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, to each soldier a part: and also the coat: and the coat was unsewn through the whole, having been woven from above.
24	Then said they to one another, Let us not divide it, but let us draw lots for it, whose it shall be: that the writing might be completed, saying, They divided my garments to themselves, and upon my clothing cast they the lot. Then truly did the soldiers these things.
25	And by the cross of Jesus stood his mother, and his mother’s sister, Mary of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene.
26	Jesus then having seen the mother, and the disciple standing near, whom he loved, says to his mother, Woman, behold thy son!
27	Then says he to the disciple, Behold thy mother And from that hour the disciple took her to his own.
28	After this, Jesus knowing that all things were already completed, that the writing might be finished, says, I thirst.
29	Then was set a vessel full of vinegar: and they having filled a sponge with vinegar, put upon hyssop, and brought near to his mouth.
30	When Jesus therefore took the vinegar, he said, It has been finished: and having bent the head, he delivered up the spirit.
31	Then the Jews, that the bodies remain not upon the cross in the sabbath, since it was the preparation, (for great was the day of that sabbath,) asked Pilate that their legs be broken, and they be taken away.
32	Then came the soldiers, and truly brake the legs of the first, and of the other crucified with him.
33	And upon having come to Jesus, when they saw him already dead, they brake not his legs:
34	But one of the soldiers with a javelin pricked his side, and quickly came out blood and water.
35	And he having seen has testified, and his testimony is true: and he knows that he says true, that ye might believe.
36	For these were that the writing be completed, A bone of him shall not be broken.
37	And again another writing says, They shall look on whom they goaded.
38	And after these, Joseph of Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, in secret, for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might takeaway the body of Jesus: and Pilate conceded. He came then, and took the body of Jesus.
39	And Nicodemus also came, he having come to Jesus at first by night, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about one hundred pounds.
40	Then took they the body of Jesus, and bound it in linen bandages with spices, as the custom is to the Jews to prepare a body for interment.
41	And in the place where he was crucified, was a garden; and in the garden a new tomb, in which no one was ever laid.
42	There, therefore, on account of the Jews’ preparation, because the tomb was near, they laid Jesus.