1	And the third day was a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there:
2	And Jesus was also called, and his disciples, to the wedding.
3	And wine having failed, the mother of Jesus says to him, They have no wine.
4	And Jesus says to her, What to me and thee, woman mine hour comes not yet.
5	His mother says to the servants, Whatever he says to you, do.
6	And six stone water buckets were placed there, according to the purification of the Jews, containing each two or three measures.
7	Jesus says to them, Fill the water buckets with water. And they filled them even up over.
8	And he says to them, Draw now, and carry to the superintendent of the feast. And they carried.
9	And when the superintendent of the feast tasted the wine having been water, and knew not whence it is: (and the servants knew, having drawn the water;) the superintendent calls the bridegroom,
10	And says to him, Every man sets good wine first; and when they be intoxicated, then inferior: thou hast kept the good wine till now.
11	This beginning of signs did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested his glory; and his disciples believed on him.
12	After this he went down to Capernaum, he, and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples: and they remained there not many days.
13	And the pascha of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem,
14	And found in the temple those selling oxen and sheep and doves, and money-changers sitting;
15	And having made a scourge of ropes, he cast all out of the temple, also sheep, and oxen; and poured out the small coin of money-changers, and overturned the tables;
16	And he said to those selling doves, Take away these things hence; make not the house of my Father a house of merchandise.
17	And his disciples remembered that it is written, The zeal of thine house has eaten me up.
18	Then answered the Jews and said to him, What sign shewest thou, that thou doest these things?
19	Jesus answered and said to them, Loose this temple, and in three days will I raise it up.
20	Then said the Jews, In forty-six years was this temple built, and wilt thou raise it up in three days?
21	But he spake concerning the temple of his body.
22	When therefore he was risen from the dead, his disciples remembered that he said this to them; and they believed the writing, and the word which Jesus spake.
23	And when he was in Jerusalem at the pascha, in the festival, many believed in his name, beholding his signs which he did.
24	And Jesus himself trusted not himself to them, for he knew all,
25	For also he had no need that any should testify concerning man: for he knew what was in man.