1	After these things Jesus again manifested himself to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias and so he made manifest.
2	There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas called Didymus, and nathanael from Cana of Galilee, and they of Zebedee, and two other of his disciples.
3	Simon Peter says to them, I retire to fish. They say to him, We also go with thee. They came forth, and went up into the ship quickly; and in that night they caught nothing.
4	And morning being already come, Jesus stood on the sea-shore: yet the disciples knew not that it is Jesus.
5	Then says Jesus to them, Children, have ye nothing cooked to eat? They answered him, No.
6	And he said to them, Cast the net to the right parts of the ship, and ye shall find. Therefore they cast, and were no more able to draw it, from the multitude of fishes.
7	Then that disciple says, whom Jesus loved, to Peter, It is the Lord. Then Simon Peter having heard that it is the Lord, girded round the upper garment, (for he was naked,) and cast himself into the sea.
8	And the other disciples came in a little ship; (for they were not far from land, but as from two hundred cubits) dragging the net of fishes.
9	When therefore they came away to the land, they see a heap of burning coals laid, and little fish laid upon, and bread.
10	Jesus says to them, Bring ye from the little fishes which ye have now caught.
11	Simon Peter went up, and drew the net upon the earth, full of great fishes, an hundred and fifty-three: and being so many, the net was not split.
12	And Jesus says to them, Come, dine. And none of the disciples dared to inquire of him, Who art thou? knowing that it is the Lord.
13	Then comes Jesus, and takes bread, and gives them, and fish likewise.
14	This already the third time Jesus was manifested to his disciples, having risen from the dead.
15	Then, when they had dined, Jesus says to Simon Peter, Simon of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He says to him, Yes, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He says to him, Feed my lambs.
16	Jesus says to him again the second time, Simon of Jonas, lovest thou me? He says to him, Yes, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He says to him, Feed my sheep.
17	He says to him the third time, Simon of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved that he said the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said to him, Lord, thou knowest all; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus says to him, Feed my sheep.
18	Truly, truly, I say to thee, when thou west younger, thou didst gird thyself and walk where thou wouldest; and when thou shalt grow old, thou shalt stretch out thy hands, and another shall gird thee, and bring thee where thou wilt not.
19	And this he said, signifying by what death he shall honour God. And having said this, he says to him, Follow me.
20	And Peter having turned back, sees the disciple whom Jesus loved following, who also reclined in the supper upon his breast, and said, Lord, who is he delivering thee up.
21	Peter having seen him, says to Jesus, Lord, and what this.
22	Jesus says to him, If I will him to remain till I come, what to thee? follow me.
23	Then went out the word to the brethren, That this disciple dies not: and Jesus said not to him, That he dies not; but, If I will him to remain till I come, what to thee?
24	This is the disciple testifying of these, and having written this: and we know that his testimony is true.
25	And there are also many other things which Jesus did, which, if they be written every one, neither do I suppose the world itself will receive the books written. Amen.