1	After these Jesus departed beyond the sea of Galilee, of Tiberias.
2	And a great crowd followed him, for they saw his signs which he did upon the sick.
3	And Jesus went up into the mount, and sat there with his disciples.
4	And the pascha was near, the festival of the Jews.
5	Then Jesus having lifted up the eyes, and seen that a great crowd comes to him, says to Philip, Whence shall we buy loaves that these might eat?
6	And this he said trying him: for himself knew what he was about to do.
7	Philip answered him. Loaves of two hundred drachmas will not suffice them, that each of them should take some little.
8	One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, says to him,
9	There is one little boy here, who has five barley loaves, and two small fishes: but what are these among so many?
10	And Jesus said, Make the men recline. And there was much grass in the place. Then the men reclined, the number about five thousand.
11	And Jesus took the loaves; and having given thanks, distributed to his disciples, and the disciples to the reclining; and likewise of the small fishes, as many as they wished.
12	And when they were filled, he says to his disciples, Gather the fragments remaining over, that nothing should be lost.
13	Then gathered they, and filled twelve baskets of the fragments of the five barley loaves, which remained over to them having eaten.
14	Then the men, having seen the sign which Jesus did, said, That this is truly the prophet coming into the world.
15	Then Jesus having known that they were about to come and carry him of forcibly, that they might make him king, departed again to the mount alone.
16	And when it was evening, his disciples went down to the sea.
17	And having entered into a ship, they came beyond the sea to Capernaum. And already was there darkness, and Jesus had not come to them.
18	And the sea, a great wind blowing, arose.
19	Then having urged forward about twenty-five or thirty stadia, they behold Jesus walking upon the sea, and being near the ship: and they were afraid.
20	And he says to them, I am; be not afraid.
21	Then they wished to take him into the ship: and the ship was quickly at land to which they retired.
22	The morrow, the crowd standing beyond the sea having seen that no other small vessel was there, except that one into which his disciples had entered, and that Jesus entered not with his disciples into the small vessel, but his disciples departed alone;
23	(But also other small vessels came out of Tiberias near to the place where they ate bread, the Lord having returned thanks:)
24	When the crowd therefore saw that Jesus is not there, nor his disciples, they also entered into ships, and came to Capernaum, seeking Jesus.
25	And having found them beyond the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when camest thou here?
26	Jesus answered them and said, Truly, truly, I say to you, ye seek me, not because ye saw signs, but for that ye ate of the loaves, and were satisfied.
27	Work not for food perishing, but food remaining to eternal life, which the Son of man will give you: for him God the Father sealed.
28	Then said they to him, What shall we do, that we might work the works of God?
29	Jesus answered and said to them, This is the work of God, that ye should believe in him whom he has sent.
30	Then said they to him, What sign doest thou, that we might see, and believe thee? what workest thou?
31	Our fathers ate manna in the desert; as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat.
32	Then said Jesus to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Moses has not given you bread from heaven; but my Father gives you true bread from heaven.
33	For the bread of God is he coming down from heaven, and giving life to the world.
34	Then said they to him, Lord, always give us this bread.
35	And Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life: he coming to me should not hunger; and he believing in me should not thirst.
36	But I said to you, That ye have seen me, and believe not.
37	All that the Father gives me shall come to me; and he coming to me I will not cast out.
38	For I have come down from heaven, not that I might do my will, but the will of him having sent me.
39	And this is the will of the Father having sent me, that all which he has given me, I should not loose of it, but raise it up in the last day.
40	And this is the will of him having sent me, that every one seeing the Son, and believing in him, should have eternal life: and I will raise him up at the last day.
41	Then murmured the Jews about him, because he said, I am the bread having come down from heaven.
42	And they said, Is not this Jesus, Joseph’s son, whose father and mother we know? how then says he, That I have come down from heaven?
43	Then answered Jesus and said to them, Murmur not with one another.
44	None can come to me, except the Father having sent me draw him: and I will raise him up at the last day.
45	It is written in the prophets, And they shall be all taught of God. Every one therefore having heard and learned of the Father, comes to me.
46	Not that any one has seen the Father, except he being from God, he has seen the Father.
47	Truly, truly, I say to you, he believing in me has eternal life.
48	I am the bread of life.
49	Your fathers ate manna in the desert, and died.
50	This is the bread which coming down from heaven, that whoever should eat of it, and he should not die.
51	I am the living bread which having come down from heaven: if any one eat of this bread, he shall live forever: and also the bread which I shall give is my flesh, which I shall give for the life of the world.
52	Then the Jews contended with one another, saying, How can he give us the flesh to eat.
53	Then said Jesus to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in yourselves.
54	He chewing my flesh, and drinking my blood, has eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day.
55	For my flesh is truly food, and my blood is truly drink.
56	He chewing my flesh, and drinking my blood, remains in me, and I in him.
57	As the living Father sent me, and I live through the Father: also he chewing me, the same also shall live through me.
58	This is the bread which having come down from heaven: not as your fathers ate manna, and died: he chewing this bread shall live forever.
59	He said these, teaching in the synagogue, in Capernaum.
60	Then many of his disciples, having heard, said, This is a hard word; who can hear it.
61	And Jesus knowing in himself that his disciples murmur for this, said to them, Does this offend you?
62	If then ye see the Son of man going up where he was before.
63	It is the spirit making alive; the flesh profits nothing: the words which I speak to you are spirit, and are life.
64	But there are some of you who believe not. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they are not believing, and who he is going to deliver him up.
65	And he said, Therefore have I said to you, that no one can come to me, except it be given him of my Father.
66	From this many of his disciples went away back, and walked no more with him.
67	Then said Jesus to the twelve, And ye will not go away?
68	Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go away? thou hast the words of eternal life.
69	And we have believed, and known, that thou art Christ, Son of the living God.
70	Jesus answered them, Have I not chosen you twelve, and of you one is a devil?
71	And he spake of Judas Iscariot, of Simon: for he was about to deliver him up, being one of the twelve.