1	And Jesus walked after these in Galilee: for he wished not to walk in Judea, because the Jews sought to kill him.
2	And the festival of the Jews was near, the Pitching of tents.
3	Then said his brethren to him, Go away thence, and retire to Judea, that also thy disciples might see thy works which thou doest.
4	For none does any thing in secret, and seeks himself to be in freedom of speech. If thou do these, make thyself manifest to the world.
5	For neither believed his brethren in him.
6	Then says Jesus to them, My time is not yet present: and your time is always ready.
7	The world cannot hate you: but me it hates, for I testify of it, that its works are evil.
8	Go ye up to this festival: I go not yet up to the festival; for my time has not yet been completed.
9	And speaking to them these things, he remained in Galilee.
10	And when his brethren went up, then he went up to the festival, not openly, but as in secret.
11	Then the Jews sought him in the festival, and said, Where is he.
12	And much murmuring was for him in the crowds: some truly said, That he is good: and others said, No; but he deceives the crowd.
13	However none spake of him with freedom of speech, for fear of the Jews.
14	And now the festival being in the midst, Jesus went up to the temple, and taught.
15	And the Jews wondered, saying, How knows he letters, not having learned.
16	Jesus answered them, and said, My teaching is not mine, but his having sent me.
17	If any desire to do his will, he shall know of the teaching, whether it is of God, or I speak from myself.
18	He speaking from himself, seeks his own glory: but he seeking the glory of him having sent him, he is true, and no injustice is in him.
19	Has not Moses given you the law, and none of you does the law? Why seek ye to kill me?
20	The crowd answered and said, Thou hast a demon: who seeks to kill thee?
21	Jesus answered and said to them, I did one work, and ye all marvel for this.
22	Moses has given you circumcision; (not that it is of Moses, but of the fathers;) and in the sabbath ye circumcise a man.
23	If a man receive circumcision in the sabbath, that the law of Moses be not loosed; rage not at me, because I made a man wholly well on the Sabbath.
24	Judge not according to sight, but judge just judgment.
25	Then said some of the Jerusalemites, Is not this he, whom they seek to kill?
26	And, behold, he speaks in freedom of speech, and they say nothing to him. Not at any time knew the rulers truly, that this is truly Christ?
27	But we know this whence he is: and Christ, when he should come, none knows whence he is.
28	Then cried Jesus in the temple, teaching, and saying, And ye know me, and ye know whence I am: and I have not come of myself, but he having sent me is true, whom ye know not.
29	But I know him; for I am from him, and he sent me.
30	Then sought they to seize him: and none put the hand upon him, for his hour had not yet come.
31	And many of the crowd believed on him, and said, That Christ, when he should come, will he do more signs than these which he did?
32	The Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring these things of him; and the Pharisees and chief priests sent servants that they might seize him.
33	Then said Jesus to them, Yet a little time am I with you, and I retire to him having sent me.
34	And ye shall seek me and shall not find: and where I am, ye cannot come.
35	Then said the Jews among themselves, Where is he about to go, that we shall not find him? is he not about to go to the dispersion of the Greeks, and teach the Greeks?
36	What is the word which he spake, Ye shall seek me, and shall not find: and where I am, ye cannot come?
37	In the last day, the great one of the festival, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any thirst, let him come to me, and drink.
38	He believing in me, as said the writing, from his belly shall flow rivers of living waters.
39	(This spake he of the Spirit which they believing in him were about to receive: for the Holy Spirit was not yet; for Jesus was not yet honoured.)
40	Then many of the crowd, having heard the word, said, This is truly a prophet.
41	Others said, This is Christ: and others said, Yet Christ comes not out of Galilee.
42	Said not the writing, That of the seed of David, and from Bethlehem, the town where David was, Christ comes?
43	Then was there a division in the crowd on his account.
44	And some of them wished to seize him; but none put hands upon him.
45	Then came the servants to the chief priests and Pharisees; and they said to them, Why did ye not bring him.
46	And the servants answered, Never spake man as this man.
47	Then the Pharisees answered them, Have ye not also been deceived.
48	Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed in him?
49	But the crowd, not knowing the law, are cursed.
50	Nicodemus says to them, (he having come to him by night, being one of them,)
51	Our law judges not a man, except it first hear from him, and know what he does.
52	They answered and said to him, And art thou not of Galilee? Search, and see: for a prophet has not risen out of Galilee.
53	And each man went to his house.