1	And Jesus went to the mount of Olives.
2	And again in the morning he was present in the temple, and all the people came to him; and having sat down, he taught them.
3	And the scribes and Pharisees brought him a woman taken in adultery; and having set her in the midst,
4	They say to him, Teacher, this woman was taken committing adultery, in the very act.
5	In the law Moses commanded us such to be stoned: therefore what sayest thou?
6	And this said they, tempting him, that they might have to accuse him. And Jesus, having stooped down, wrote with his fingers upon the earth.
7	And when they continued asking him, having lifted up the head, he said to them, Let him faultless among you, first cast a stone at her.
8	And again having stooped down, he wrote upon the earth.
9	And they having heard, and being convicted by consciousness, went out one by one, beginning from the eldest even to the last; and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst.
10	And Jesus having lifted up the head, and seen none but the woman, said to her, Woman, where are they accusing thee? has none condemned thee.
11	And she said, None, Lord. And Jesus said to her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more.
12	Again therefore Jesus spake to them, saying, I am the light of the world: he following me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.
13	Then said the Pharisees to him, Thou testifiest of thyself; thy testimony is not true.
14	Jesus answered and said to them. Though I testify of myself; my testimony is true: for I know whence I came, and where I retire; but ye know not whence I came and where I retire.
15	Ye judge according to the flesh; I judge no one.
16	And if I also judge, my judgment is true: for I am not alone, but I and the Father having sent me.
17	And also in your law has it been written, that the testimony of two men is true.
18	I am he testifying of myself, and the Father having sent me testifies of me.
19	Then said they to him, Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, ye neither know me, nor my Father: if ye had known me, ye had known my Father also.
20	These words spake Jesus in the royal treasury, teaching in the temple: and no one seized him; for his hour had not yet come.
21	Then said Jesus again to them, I retire, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sins: where I retire, ye cannot come.
22	Then said the Jews, Will he not kill himself? for he says, Where I retire, ye cannot come.
23	And he said to them, Ye are from below I am from above: ye are of this world; I am not of this world.
24	I said therefore to you, that ye shall die in your sins: for if ye believe not that I am, ye shall die in your sins.
25	Then said they to him, Who art thou? And Jesus said to them, In the beginning, he which I spake to you.
26	Many things have I to speak and judge of you; but he having sent me is true; and what things I have heard from him these say I to the world.
27	They knew not that he spake to them of the Father.
28	Then said Jesus to them, When ye lift up the Son of man then shall ye know that I am, and I do nothing of myself; but as my Father taught me, these I speak.
29	And he having sent me is with me: the Father has not left me alone; for I do always things pleasing to him.
30	He speaking these, many believed in him.
31	Then said Jesus to the Jews having believed him, If ye remain in my word, ye are truly my disciples.
32	And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.
33	They answered him, We are Abraham’s seed, and have never served any; how sayest thou, That ye shall be free?
34	Jesus answered them, Truly, truly, say I to you, That every one doing sin, is servant of sin.
35	And the servant remains not in the house forever; the Son remains forever.
36	If the Son make you free, ye shall be truly free.
37	I know that ye are Abraham’s seed; but ye seek to kill me, for my word has no place in you.
38	I, what I have seen from my Father, speak: and ye, therefore, what ye have seen of your Father, do.
39	They answered and said to him, Abraham is our Father. Jesus says to them, If ye were Abraham’s children, ye had done Abraham’s works.
40	And now ye seek to kill me, a man who has spoken to you the truth, which I heard from God: this did not Abraham.
41	Ye do the works of your father. Then said they to him, We have not been born of fornication; for we have one Father, God.
42	Then said Jesus to them, If God were your Father, ye had loved me: for I went forth from God, and came; for I have not come of myself, but he sent me.
43	Wherefore ye know not my speech, for ye cannot hear my word.
44	Ye are of your father the devil, and the eager desires of your father will ye do. He was slaying men from the beginning, and stood not in the truth, for there is no truth in him. When he would speak a lie, he speaks of his own things; for he is a liar, and the father of him.
45	And because I say the truth, ye believe me not.
46	Which of you convicts me of sin? And if I say the truth, why do ye not believe me.
47	He being of God hears the words of God: therefore ye hear not, for ye are not of God.
48	Then answered the Jews, and said to him, Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a demon?
49	Jesus answered, I have not a demon; but I honour my Father, and ye dishonour me.
50	And I seek not my glory: there is he seeking and judging.
51	Truly, truly, I say to you, If any keep my word, he should never see death.
52	Then said the Jews to him, Now we have known that thou hast a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets; and thou sayest, If any keep my word, he shall never taste of death.
53	Thou art not greater than our father Abraham, who died; and the prophets died: whom makest thou thyself?
54	Jesus answered, If I honour myself, my honour is nothing: it is my Father honouring me; whom ye say, that he is your God:
55	And ye have not known him; but I know him: and if I say, I know him not, I shall be a liar like you: but I know him, and keep his word.
56	Your father Abraham was overjoyed that he might see my day: and he saw, and rejoiced.
57	Then said the Jews to him, Thou hast not yet fifty years, and hast thou seen Abraham.
58	And Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, Before Abraham was born, I am.
59	Then lifted up they stones that they might cast upon him: and Jesus was hid, and he went forth out of the temple, having passed through the midst of them, and so he passed by.