1	And passing by, he saw a man blind from birth.
2	And his disciples asked him, saying, Rabbi, who sinned, he, or his parents, that he was born blind?
3	Jesus answered, Neither did this sin, nor his parents: but that the works of God might be manifested in him.
4	I must work the works of him having sent me, while it is day: night comes, when none can work.
5	While I be in the world, I am the light of the world.
6	Having said these, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and rubbed the clay upon the eyes of the blind,
7	And said to him, Retire, wash in the pool of Siloam, (which is interpreted, Sent.) He went away therefore, and washed, and came seeing.
8	Then the neighbors, and those seeing him before that he was blind, said, Is not this he sitting and begging?
9	Others said, This is he: and others, That he is like him: he said, That I am.
10	Then said they to him, How were thine eyes opened?
11	He answered and said, A man called Jesus made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and said to me, Retire to the pool of Siloam, and wash: and having gone and washed, I saw again.
12	Then said they to him, Where is he? He says I know not.
13	They bring him to the Pharisees, him once blind.
14	And it was the sabbath, when Jesus made clay, and opened his eyes.
15	Then again the Pharisees also asked him how he saw again. He said to them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and I see.
16	Then said certain of the Pharisees, This man is not from God, for he keeps not the sabbath. Others said, How can a sinful man do such signs? And a division was among them.
17	They say to the blind again, What sayest thou of him, for he opened thine eyes? He said, That he is a prophet.
18	Then the Jews believed not of him that he was blind, and saw again, until they called the parents of him having looked up.
19	And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, whom ye say that be was born blind how then does be now see.
20	His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind:
21	But how he now sees, we know not; or who opened his eyes, we know not: he has age; ask him: he shall speak for himself.
22	These said his parents, for they feared the Jews: for already had the Jews agreed, that if any should acknowledge him Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue.
23	Therefore said his parents, That he has age; ask him.
24	Then called they the man of a second time, who was blind, and said to him, Give glory to God: we know that this man is sinful.
25	He answered and said, If he be sinful, I know not: one thing I know, that, being blind, now I see.
26	And again said they to him, What did he to thee? how opened he thine eyes?
27	He answered them, I told you already, and ye heard not: why wish ye to hear again? ye wish not also to be his disciples?
28	Then they reviled him, and said, Thou art his disciple; but we are Moses’ disciples.
29	We know that God has spoken to Moses; but this, we know not whence he is.
30	The man answered and said to them, For in this is it wonderful, that ye know not whence he is, and he opened mine eyes.
31	And we know that God hears not the sinful: but if any be godly, and do his will, this he hears.
32	From forever was it not heard that any opened the eyes of him born blind.
33	If this one were not of God, he could do nothing.
34	They answered and said to him, In sins wert thou wholly born, and teachest thou us? And they cast him without.
35	Jesus heard that they cast him without; and having found him, said to him, Believest thou in the Son of God?
36	He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe in him?
37	And Jesus said to him, Thou hast also seen him, and he speaking with thee, the same is he.
38	And he said I believe, Lord. And he worshipped him.
39	And Jesus said, For judgment came I into this world, that they not seeing might see; and they seeing might be blind.
40	And they being with him of the Pharisees heard these things, and said to him,
41	We are not also blind? Jesus said to them If ye were blind, ye had not sinned: and now ye say, That we see; therefore your sin remains.