1	At that time, Jesus went out through the ripe grain on the Sabbath. And his disciples, being hungry, began to separate the grain and to eat.
2	Then the Pharisees, seeing this, said to him, “Behold, your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbaths.”
3	But he said to them: “Have you not read what David did, when he was hungry, and those who were with him:
4	how he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the Presence, which was not lawful for him to eat, nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests?
5	Or have you not read in the law, that on the Sabbaths the priests in the temple violate the Sabbath, and they are without guilt?
6	But I say to you, that something greater than the temple is here.
7	And if you knew what this means, ‘I desire mercy, and not sacrifice,’ you would never have condemned the innocent.
8	For the Son of man is Lord even of the Sabbath.”
9	And when he had passed from there, he went into their synagogues.
10	And behold, there was a man who had a withered hand, and they questioned him, so that they might accuse him, saying, “Is it lawful to cure on the Sabbaths?”
11	But he said to them: “Who is there among you, having even one sheep, if it will have fallen into a pit on the Sabbath, would not take hold of it and lift it up?
12	How much better is a man than a sheep? And so, it is lawful to do good on the Sabbaths.”
13	Then he said to the man, “Extend your hand.” And he extended it, and it was restored to health, just like the other one.
14	Then the Pharisees, departing, took council against him, as to how they might destroy him.
15	But Jesus, knowing this, withdrew from there. And many followed him, and he cured them all.
16	And he instructed them, lest they make him known.
17	Then what was spoken through the prophet Isaiah was fulfilled, saying:
18	“Behold, my servant whom I have chosen, my beloved in whom my soul is well pleased. I will place my Spirit over him, and he shall announce judgment to the nations.
19	He shall not contend, nor cry out, neither shall anyone hear his voice in the streets.
20	He shall not crush the bruised reed, and he shall not extinguish the smoking wick, until he sends forth judgment unto victory.
21	And the Gentiles shall hope in his name.”
22	Then one who had a demon, who was blind and mute, was brought to him. And he cured him, so that he spoke and saw.
23	And all the crowds were stupefied, and they said, “Could this be the son of David?”
24	But the Pharisees, hearing it, said, “This man does not cast out demons, except by Beelzebub, the prince of the demons.”
25	But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said to them: “Every kingdom divided against itself will become desolate. And every city or house divided against itself will not stand.
26	So if Satan casts out Satan, then he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand?
27	And if I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your own sons cast them out? Therefore, they shall be your judges.
28	But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has arrived among you.
29	Or how can anyone enter into the house of a strong man, and plunder his belongings, unless he first restrains the strong man? And then he will plunder his house.
30	Whoever is not with me, is against me. And whoever does not gather with me, scatters.
31	For this reason, I say to you: Every sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven men, but blasphemy against the Spirit shall not be forgiven.
32	And anyone who will have spoken a word against the Son of man shall be forgiven. But whoever will have spoken against the Holy Spirit shall not be forgiven, neither in this age, nor in the future age.
33	Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree evil and its fruit evil. For certainly a tree is known by its fruit.
34	Progeny of vipers, how are you able to speak good things while you are evil? For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks.
35	A good man offers good things from a good storehouse. And an evil man offers evil things from an evil storehouse.
36	But I say to you, that for every idle word which men will have spoken, they shall render an account in the day of judgment.
37	For by your words shall you be justified, and by your words shall you be condemned.”
38	Then certain ones from the scribes and the Pharisees responded to him, saying, “Teacher, we want to see a sign from you.”
39	And answering, he said to them: “An evil and adulterous generation seeks a sign. But a sign will not be given to it, except the sign of the prophet Jonah.
40	For just as Jonah was in the belly of the whale for three days and three nights, so shall the Son of man be in the heart of the earth for three days and three nights.
41	The men of Nineveh shall arise in judgment with this generation, and they shall condemn it. For, at the preaching of Jonah, they repented. And behold, there is a greater than Jonah here.
42	The Queen of the South shall arise in judgment with this generation, and she shall condemn it. For she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And behold, there is a greater than Solomon here.
43	Now when an unclean spirit departs from a man, he walks through dry places, seeking rest, and he does not find it.
44	Then he says, ‘I will return to my house, from which I departed’. And arriving, he finds it vacant, swept clean, and decorated.
45	Then he goes and takes with him seven other spirits more wicked than himself, and they enter in and live there. And in the end, the man becomes worse than he was at first. So, too, shall it be with this most wicked generation.”
46	While he was still speaking to the crowds, behold, his mother and his brothers were standing outside, seeking to speak with him.
47	And someone said to him: “Behold, your mother and your brothers are standing outside, seeking you.”
48	But responding to the one speaking to him, he said, “Which one is my mother, and who are my brothers?”
49	And extending his hand to his disciples, he said: “Behold: my mother and my brothers.
50	For anyone who does the will of my Father, who is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother.”