1	Now on the morning of the Sabbath, when it began to grow light on the first Sabbath, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the sepulcher.
2	And behold, a great earthquake occurred. For an Angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and as he approached, he rolled back the stone and sat down on it.
3	Now his appearance was like lightning, and his vestment was like snow.
4	Then, out of fear of him, the guards were terrified, and they became like dead men.
5	Then the Angel responded by saying to the women: “Do not be afraid. For I know that you are seeking Jesus, who was crucified.
6	He is not here. For he has risen, just as he said. Come and see the place where the Lord was placed.
7	And then, go quickly, and tell his disciples that he has risen. And behold, he will precede you to Galilee. There you shall see him. Lo, I have told you beforehand.”
8	And they went out of the tomb quickly, with fear and in great joy, running to announce it to his disciples.
9	And behold, Jesus met them, saying, “Hail.” But they drew near and took hold of his feet, and they adored him.
10	Then Jesus said to them: “Do not be afraid. Go, announce it to my brothers, so that they may go to Galilee. There they shall see me.”
11	And when they had departed, behold, some of the guards went into the city, and they reported to the leaders of the priests all that had happened.
12	And gathering together with the elders, having taken counsel, they gave an abundant sum of money to the soldiers,
13	saying: “Say that his disciples arrived at night and stole him away, while we were sleeping.
14	And if the procurator hears about this, we will persuade him, and we will protect you.”
15	Then, having accepted the money, they did as they were instructed. And this word has been spread among the Jews, even to this day.
16	Now the eleven disciples went on to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had appointed them.
17	And, seeing him, they worshipped him, but certain ones doubted.
18	And Jesus, drawing near, spoke to them, saying: “All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth.
19	Therefore, go forth and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,
20	teaching them to observe all that I have ever commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, even to the consummation of the age.”