1	Now in those days, John the Baptist arrived, preaching in the desert of Judea,
2	and saying: “Repent. For the kingdom of heaven has drawn near.”
3	For this is the one who was spoken of through the prophet Isaiah, saying: “A voice crying out in the desert: Prepare the way of the Lord. Make straight his paths.”
4	Now the same John had a garment made from the hair of camels, and a leather belt around his waist. And his food was locusts and wild honey.
5	Then Jerusalem, and all Judea, and the entire region around the Jordan went out to him.
6	And they were baptized by him in the Jordan, acknowledging their sins.
7	Then, seeing many of the Pharisees and Sadducees arriving for his baptism, he said to them: “Progeny of vipers, who warned to you to flee from the approaching wrath?
8	Therefore, produce fruit worthy of repentance.
9	And do not choose to say within yourselves, ‘We have Abraham as our father.’ For I tell you that God has the power to raise up sons to Abraham from these stones.
10	For even now the axe has been placed at the root of the trees. Therefore, every tree that does not produce good fruit shall be cut down and cast into the fire.
11	Indeed, I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who will come after me is more powerful than me. I am not worthy to carry his shoes. He will baptize you with the fire of the Holy Spirit.
12	His winnowing fan is in his hand. And he will thoroughly cleanse his threshing floor. And he will gather his wheat into the barn. But the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire.”
13	Then Jesus came from Galilee, to John at the Jordan, in order to be baptized by him.
14	But John refused him, saying, “I ought to be baptized by you, and yet you come to me?”
15	And responding, Jesus said to him: “Permit this for now. For in this way it is fitting for us to fulfill all justice.” Then he allowed him.
16	And Jesus, having been baptized, ascended from the water immediately, and behold, the heavens were opened to him. And he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and alighting on him.
17	And behold, there was a voice from heaven, saying: “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.”