1	Then, seeing the crowds, he ascended the mountain, and when he had sat down, his disciples drew near to him,
2	and opening his mouth, he taught them, saying:
3	“Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
4	Blessed are the meek, for they shall possess the earth.
5	Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be consoled.
6	Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for justice, for they shall be satisfied.
7	Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy.
8	Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.
9	Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God.
10	Blessed are those who endure persecution for the sake of justice, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
11	Blessed are you when they have slandered you, and persecuted you, and spoken all kinds of evil against you, falsely, for my sake:
12	be glad and exult, for your reward in heaven is plentiful. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you.
13	You are the salt of the earth. But if salt loses its saltiness, with what will it be salted? It is no longer useful at all, except to be cast out and trampled under by men.
14	You are the light of the world. A city set on a mountain cannot be hidden.
15	And they do not light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand, so that it may shine to all who are in the house.
16	So then, let your light shine in the sight of men, so that they may see your good works, and may glorify your Father, who is in heaven.
17	Do not think that I have come to loosen the law or the prophets. I have not come to loosen, but to fulfill.
18	Amen I say to you, certainly, until heaven and earth pass away, not one iota, not one dot shall pass away from the law, until all is done.
19	Therefore, whoever will have loosened one of the least of these commandments, and have taught men so, shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever will have done and taught these, such a one shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven.
20	For I say to you, that unless your justice has surpassed that of the scribes and the Pharisees you shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven.
21	You have heard that it was said to the ancients: ‘You shall not murder; whoever will have murdered shall be liable to judgment.’
22	But I say to you, that anyone who becomes angry with his brother shall be liable to judgment. But whoever will have called his brother, ‘Idiot,’ shall be liable to the council. Then, whoever will have called him, ‘Worthless,’ shall be liable to the fires of Hell.
23	Therefore, if you offer your gift at the altar, and there you remember that your brother has something against you,
24	leave your gift there, before the altar, and go first to be reconciled to your brother, and then you may approach and offer your gift.
25	Be reconciled with your adversary quickly, while you are still on the way with him, lest perhaps the adversary may hand you over to the judge, and the judge may hand you over to the officer, and you will be thrown in prison.
26	Amen I say to you, that you shall not go forth from there, until you have repaid the last quarter.
27	You have heard that it was said to the ancients: ‘You shall not commit adultery.’
28	But I say to you, that anyone who will have looked at a woman, so as to lust after her, has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
29	And if your right eye causes you to sin, root it out and cast it away from you. For it is better for you that one of your members perish, than that your whole body be cast into Hell.
30	And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and cast it away from you. For it is better for you that one of your members perish, than that your whole body go into Hell.
31	And it has been said: ‘Whoever would dismiss his wife, let him give her a bill of divorce.’
32	But I say to you, that anyone who will have dismissed his wife, except in the case of fornication, causes her to commit adultery; and whoever will have married her who has been dismissed commits adultery.
33	Again, you have heard that it was said to the ancients: ‘You shall not swear falsely. For you shall repay your oaths to the Lord.’
34	But I say to you, do not swear an oath at all, neither by heaven, for it is the throne of God,
35	nor by earth, for it is his footstool, nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king.
36	Neither shall you swear an oath by your own head, because you are not able to cause one hair to become white or black.
37	But let your word ‘Yes’ mean ‘Yes,’ and ‘No’ mean ‘No.’ For anything beyond that is of evil.
38	You have heard that it was said: ‘An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.’
39	But I say to you, do not resist one who is evil, but if anyone will have struck you on your right cheek, offer to him the other also.
40	And anyone who wishes to contend with you in judgment, and to take away your tunic, release to him your cloak also.
41	And whoever will have compelled you for one thousand steps, go with him even for two thousand steps.
42	Whoever asks of you, give to him. And if anyone would borrow from you, do not turn away from him.
43	You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall love your neighbor, and you shall have hatred for your enemy.’
44	But I say to you: Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. And pray for those who persecute and slander you.
45	In this way, you shall be sons of your Father, who is in heaven. He causes his sun to rise upon the good and the bad, and he causes it to rain upon the just and the unjust.
46	For if you love those who love you, what reward will you have? Do not even tax collectors behave this way?
47	And if you greet only your brothers, what more have you done? Do not even the pagans behave this way?
48	Therefore, be perfect, even as your heavenly Father is perfect.”