1	And Nahash the Ammonite will come up and encamp against Jabesh-Gilead: and all the men of Jabesh will say to Nahash, Cut out to us a covenant, and we will serve thee.
2	And Nahash the Ammonite will say to them, Upon this I will cut out to you in boring out for you every right eye, and I put it a reproach upon all Israel.
3	And the old men of Jabesh will say to him, Let go to us seven days, and we will send messengers in every bound of Israel: and if none save us we will come forth to thee.
4	And the messengers will come to the hill of Saul and will speak the words in the ears of the people: and all the people will lift up their voice and weep.
5	And behold, Saul came after the cattle from the field; and Saul will say, What to the people that they will weep? and they will recount to him the words of the men of Jabesh.
6	And the spirit of God will fall suddenly upon Saul in his hearing these words, and his anger will kindle greatly.
7	And he will take a pair of oxen and will cut them in pieces, and will send in all the bound of Israel by the hand of the messengers, saying, Whoever will not come forth after Saul and after Samuel, thus shall be done to his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah will fall upon the people, and they will come forth as one man.
8	And he will review them in Bezek, and the sons of Israel will be three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
9	And they will say to the messengers coming, Thus shall ye say to the men of Jabesh-Gilead, To-morrow salvation shall be to you in the heat of the sun. And the messengers will come and announce to the men of Jabesh, and they will rejoice.
10	And the men of Jabesh will say, To morrow we will come forth to you, and do to us air the good in your eyes.
11	And it will be on the morrow, and Saul will put the people three heads; and they will come into the midst of the camp in the watch of the morning, and they will strike Ammon till the heat of the day: and there will be those being left and they will be scattered, and two among them were not left together.
12	And the people will say to Samuel, Who said, Shall Saul reign over us? Ye shall give up the men and we will put them to death.
13	And Saul will say, A man shall not die in this day, for this day Jehovah made salvation in Israel.
14	And Samuel will say to the people, Go, and we will go to Gilgal, and we will renew there the kingdom.
15	And all the people will go to Gilgal; and will sacrifice there sacrifices of peace before Jehovah: and Saul will rejoice there and all the men of Israel, even greatly.