1	And it will be the day, and Jonathan son of Saul, will say to the boy lifting up his arms, Come, and we will pass over to the station of the rovers, which is from beyond this And to his father he announced not.
2	And Saul dwelt in the extremity of the hill under the pomegranate which is in the precipice. And the people that were with him, about six hundred men.
3	And Ahiah, son of Ahitub, brother of Ichabod, son of Phinehas, son of Eli the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, lifting up an Ephod. And the people knew not that Jonathan went.
4	And between the passages where Jonathan sought to pass through upon the garrison of the rovers, and the tooth of a rock from beyond this, and the tooth of a rock from beyond this; and the name of the one Bozez, and the name of the one Seneh.
5	And the tooth of the one pressing from the north in front of Michmash, and the other from the south in front of the hill.
6	And Jonathan will say to the boy lifting up his arms, Come, and we will pass over to the garrison of these uncircumcised: perhaps Jehovah will do for us: for no restraining to Jehovah to save by a multitude or by few.
7	And he lifting up his arms will say to him, Do all that is in thy heart: turn for thyself; behold me with thee according to thy heart.
8	And Jonathan will say, Behold, we pass over to the men, and we will disclose ourselves to them.
9	If thus they shall say to us, Be still till our reaching to you; and we stood our lowest place, and we will not go up to them.
10	And if thus they shall say, Come up upon us; and we went up: for Jehovah gave them into our hand; and this to us the sign.
11	And they two will disclose to the garrison of the rovers; and the rovers will say, Behold, the Hebrews coming forth from the holes where they hid there.
12	And the men of the garrison will answer Jonathan and him lifting up his arms, and they will say, Come up to us, and we will make a word known to you. And Jonathan will say to him lifting up his arms, Come up after me: for Jehovah gave them into the hand of Israel.
13	And Jonathan will go up upon his hands and upon his feet, and he lifting up his arms after him: and they will fall before Jonathan; and he lifting up his arms, slaying after him.
14	And the first blow which Jonathan struck, and he lifting up his arms, will be about twenty men in about half the furrow of a yoke of a field.
15	And terror will be in the camp, in the field, and in all the people of the garrison: and the destroyers trembled, they also, and the earth will be moved; and it will be for the terror of God.
16	And the watchman to Saul will see in the hill of Benjamin, and behold, the multitude melting away, and going, and fighting.
17	And Saul will say to the people that were with him, Review now, and see who went from us. And they will review, and behold, not Jonathan and he lifting up his arms.
18	And Saul will say to Ahiah, Bring near the ark of God. For the ark of God was in that day and the sons of Israel.
19	And it will be while Saul spake to the priest, and the multitude which was in the camp of the rovers, and it went going and increasing: and Saul will say to the priest, Take back thy hand.
20	And Saul will be convoked and all the people which were with him, and they will go even to the battle: and behold, the sword of a man will be against his neighbor, a very great confusion.
21	And the Hebrews being to the rovers about yesterday the third day, who went up with them into the camp round about, and also they to be with Israel which were with Saul and, Jonathan.
22	And every man of Israel being hid in mount Ephraim, heard that the rovers fled, and they will cleave together, also they after them in the battle.
23	And Jehovah will save Israel in that day: and the battle passed over to the house of nothing.
24	And the man Israel was pressed in that day: and Saul will curse the people, saying, Cursed the men who shall eat bread till the evening, and I was avenged of mine enemy. And all the people tasted not bread.
25	And all the land came into a thicket; and honey will be upon the face of the field.
26	And the people will come to the thicket, and behold, the honey went; and none putting his hand to his mouth, for the people will be afraid of the oath.
27	And Jonathan heard not in his father’s causing the people to swear: and he will stretch forth the extremity of the rod which is in his hand, and he will dip it in the droppings of the honey, and he will turn back his hand to his mouth, and his eyes will see.
28	And a man from the people will answer and say, Thy father adjuring, adjured the people, saying, Cursed the man who shall eat bread this day. And the people were wearied.
29	And Jonathan will say, My father troubled the land: see, now, that mine eyes saw, because I tasted a little of this honey.
30	But if eating, the people ate this day from the spoil of his enemies which he found; for now was not the blow greater against the rovers?
31	And they will strike the rovers in that day, from Michmash to the oak: and the people were greatly wearied.
32	And the people will make to the spoil, and they will take sheep and oxen, and the young of oxen, and they will slaughter on the earth: and the people will eat upon the blood.
33	And they will announce to Saul, saying, Behold, the people sinning against Jehovah to eat upon the blood. And he will say, Ye acted treacherously: roll to me this day a great stone.
34	And Saul will say, Be ye dispersed among the people, and say to them, Bring near to me a man his ox, and a man his sheep, and slaughter here and eat; and ye shall not sin against Jehovah to eat with the blood. And all the people will bring near, each his ox in his hand this night, and they will slaughter there.
35	And Saul will build an altar to Jehovah: this altar he began to build to Jehovah.
36	And Saul will say, We will go down after the rovers by night, and we will plunder among them till the light of the morning, and we will not leave a man among them. And they will say, Do all the good in thine eyes. And the priest will say, We will draw near here to God.
37	And Saul will ask in God, Shall I go down after the rovers? wilt thou give them into the hand of Israel? And he will not answer him in that day.
38	And Saul will say, Draw near here all the corners of the people: and know and see in what was this sin this day.
39	For Jehovah lives, having saved Israel, for if it is in Jonathan my son, for dying he shall die. And none from all the people answered him.
40	And he will say to all Israel, Ye shall be on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on one side. And the people will say to Saul, Do the good in thine eyes.
41	And Saul will say to Jehovah the God of Israel, Give the truth. And Jonathan will be taken, and Saul: and the people will come forth.
42	And Saul will say, Cast between me and between Jonathan my son. And Jonathan will be taken.
43	And Saul will say to Jonathan, Announce to me what thou didst And Jonathan will announce to him and say, Tasting, I tasted with the extremity of the rod which was in my hand, a little honey, and behold, I shall die.
44	And Saul will say, So will Jehovah do, and so will he add; for dying, thou shalt die, Jonathan.
45	And the people will say to Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who did this great salvation in Israel? Far be it: Jehovah lives if there shall fall from the hair of his head to the earth; for he did with Jehovah this day. And the people will let Jonathan go free, and he died not.
46	And Saul will come up from after the rovers: and the rovers went to their place.
47	And Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and he will fight round about against all his enemies, against Moab and against the sons of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the rovers: and in all which he will turn he will disturb.
48	And he will do in strength, and he will strike Amalek, and deliver Israel from the hand of him plundering him.
49	And the sons of Saul will be Jonathan, and Ishui, and Melchisua; and the names of his two daughters, the name of the first-born, Merab, and the name of the small, Michal.
50	And the name of Saul’s wife Ahinoam, daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the chief of his army, Abner, son of Ner, Saul’s uncle.
51	And Kish the father of Saul: and Ner the father of Abner, son of Abiel.
52	And strong war will be against the rovers all the days of Saul: and Saul seeing every strong man and every son of strength, and he will gather him to him.