1	And it will be as he finished to speak to Saul, and the soul of Jonathan was bound with the soul of David, and Jonathan will love him as his soul.
2	And Saul will take him in that day and he gave him not to turn back to the house of his father.
3	And Jonathan and David will cut out a covenant in his loving him as his soul.
4	And Jonathan will strip off the upper garment which is upon him and will give it to David, and his garments, and even to his sword, and even to his bow, and even to his girdle.
5	And David will go forth in all which Saul will send him, and he will be prudent: and Saul will set him over the men of war, and he will be good in the eyes of all the people, and also in the eyes of the servants of Saul.
6	And it will be in their coming, in David’s turning back from the striking of the rover, and the women will come forth from all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing to meet Saul the king, with drums and with gladness and with triangles:
7	And the women will answer, playing, and they will say, Saul smote with his thousand and David with his ten thousands.
8	And it will kindle to Saul greatly, and this word will be evil in his eyes; and he will say, They gave to David ten thousands and to me they gave thousands, and yet to him but the kingdom.
9	And Saul will be wrong with David from that day and forward.
10	And it will be on the morrow, and the evil spirit of God will fall upon Saul, and he will prophesy in the midst of the house: and David playing with his hand as the day to day: and a spear in Saul’s hand.
11	And Saul will lift up the spear, and say, I will strike against David into the wall And David will flee from before him twice.
12	And Saul will be afraid from the face of David, for Jehovah was with him, and he departed from Saul.
13	And Saul will remove him from him, and will set to him chief of a thousand; and he will go out and come in before the people.
14	And David will be prudent in all his ways; and Jehovah with him.
15	And Saul will see that he is prudent greatly, and he will be afraid of his face.
16	And all Israel and Judah loved David, for he will go out and come in before them.
17	And Saul will say to David, Behold, my daughter the great, Merab; her will I give to thee for wife; but be thou to me for a son of strength and fight the battles of Jehovah. And Saul said, My hand shall not be upon him, and the hand of the rovers shall be upon him.
18	And David will say to Saul, Who am I? and who was my father’s family in Israel that I shall be son-in-law to the king?
19	And it will be in the time of giving Merab, Saul’s daughter, to David, and he gave her to Adriel, the Meholathite, for wife,
20	And Michal, Saul’s daughter, will love David: and they will announce to Saul, and the word was straight in his eyes.
21	And Saul will say, I will give her to him, and she shall be to him for a snare, and the hand of the rovers shall be against him. And Saul will say to David, In the second time thou shalt be son-in-law to me this day.
22	And Saul commanded his servants, Speak to David in secret, saying, Behold, the king delighted in thee, and all his servants loved thee: and now be son-in-law of the king.
23	And Saul’s servants will speak in the ears of David these words. And David will say, Was it light in your eyes to be son-in-law to the king, and I a poor man and lightly esteemed?
24	And Saul’s servants will announce to him, saying, According to these words spake David.
25	And Saul will say, Thus shall ye say to David, No delight to the king in a dowry, but in a hundred uncircumcisions of the rovers to be avenged of the king’s enemies. And Saul purposed to cause David to fall into the hand of the rovers.
26	And his servants will announce to David these words, and the word will be straight in David’s eyes, to be son-in-law to the king: and the days were not filled up.
27	And David will rise and will go, he and his men, and he will smite among the rovers two hundred men; and David will bring their uncircumcisions and they will complete them to the king, to be son-in-law to the king. And Saul will give to him Michal his daughter for wife.
28	And Saul will see and know that Jehovah is with David, and Michal, Saul’s daughter, loved him.
29	And Saul will add yet to be afraid from the face of David; and Saul will be an enemy with David all the days.
30	And the chiefs of the rovers will go forth: and it will be whenever they went forth, David was prudent above all the servants of Saul: and his name will be very precious.