1	And Saul will speak to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, to kill David. And Jonathan, Saul’s son, delighted in David greatly:
2	And Jonathan will announce to David, saying, Saul my father is seeking to kill thee: and at this time, watch now, in the morning, and dwell in secret and hide.
3	And I will go forth and stand by the hand of my father in the field where thou art there, and I will speak of thee to my father; and what I shall see I will announce to thee.
4	And Jonathan will speak good of David to Saul his father, and he will say to him, The king will not sin against his servant against David, for he sinned not against thee, and because of his doing good to thee greatly:
5	And he put his soul in his hand and smote the rover, and Jehovah will make great salvation to all Israel: thou sawest and thou wilt rejoice; and wherefore wilt thou sin against innocent blood, to kill David gratuitously?
6	And Saul will hear to the voice of Jonathan; and Saul will swear, Jehovah lives if he shall die.
7	And Jonathan will call for David, and Jonathan will announce to him all these words. And Jonathan will bring in David to Saul, and he will be before him as yesterday the third day.
8	And there will add to be war: and David will go forth and fight against the rovers, and will strike among them a great blow, and they will flee from his face.
9	And the evil spirit of Jehovah will be upon Saul, and he will sit in his house, and his spear in his hand: and David playing with his hand.
10	And Saul will seek to strike the spear into David and even into the wall: and he will slip away from the face of Saul, and he will strike the spear into the wall: and David fled, and he will escape in that night.
11	And Saul will send messengers to the house of David to watch him, and to kill him in the morning: and Michel his wife will announce to David, saying, If thou save not thy soul this night, to-morrow thou diest.
12	And Michal will let David down through the window: and he will go and flee, and escape.
13	And Michal will take a teraphim and put into the bed, and put a braiding of goat’s hair at its head, and will cover with a garment.
14	And Saul will send messengers to take David, and she will say, He sick.
15	And Saul will send the messengers to see David, saying, Bring him up in his bed to me to kill him.
16	And the messengers will come in, and behold, the teraphim in the bed, and the braiding of goats hair at its head.
17	And Saul will say to Michal, Wherefore didst thou deceive me thus? and wilt thou send away mine enemy and he will escape? And Michal will say to Saul, He said to me, Send me away; why shall I kill thee?
18	And David fled, and he will escape and will come to Samuel at Ramah, and he will announce to him all that Saul did to him. And he went, and Samuel, and they dwelt in Naioth.
19	And it will be announced to Saul, saying, Behold, David in Naioth in Ramah.
20	And Saul will send messengers to take David: and seeing the assembly of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing, being set up over them, and the spirit of God will be upon Saul’s messengers, and they will prophesy, also they.
21	And they will announce to Saul, and he will send other messengers, and they will prophesy, also they. And Saul will add and will send messengers the third time, and they will prophesy, also they.
22	And he also will go to Ramah, and he will come even to the great pit which is in Sechu: and he will ask and say, Where Samuel and David? And it will be said, Behold, in Naioth in Ramah.
23	And he will go there to Naioth in Ramah: and the spirit of God will be upon him, him also, and going, he will go and prophesy even till his coming into Naioth in Ramah.
24	And he will also strip off his garments and prophesy, he also, before Samuel; and he will fall naked all that day and all the night. For this they will say, Is Saul also among the prophets.