1	And Hannah will pray and say, My heart rejoiced in Jehovah, my horn was lifted up in Jehovah; my mouth was enlarged over mine enemies; for I was glad in thy salvation.
2	None holy as Jehovah, for none beside thee: and no rock as our God.
3	Ye shall not enlarge; will ye speak proud, proud? shall the impatient thing come forth from your mouth for Jehovah a God of knowledge, and doings were not made equal.
4	The bows of the mighty being broken, and the weak were girded with strength.
5	And those filled with bread hired themselves out; and they hungering, ceased till the barren shall bring forth seven; and she multiplying sons languished.
6	Jehovah killing and giving life; bringing down to hades and bringing up.
7	Jehovah dispossessing, and enriching: making low, but lifting up.
8	Raising up the weak from the dust, he will raise up the needy from the dung-hill to sit with the noble, and he will cause them to inherit a throne of glory, for to Jehovah the castings of the earth, and he will put the habitable globe upon them.
9	He will watch the feet of the merciful and the unjust shall be silent in darkness; for not by strength shall man prevail.
10	Jehovah, they contending against him, shall be broken; in the heavens he will break them in pieces: Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth, and he will give strength to his king, and he will lift up the horn of his Messiah.
11	And Elkanah will go to Ramah, to his house. And the boy was serving Jehovah in the face of Eli the priest.
12	And the sons of Eli, sons of Belial; they knew not Jehovah.
13	And the priests judging the people, every man sacrificing a sacrifice; and the boy of the priest came as the flesh boiled, and the fork of three teeth in his hand;
14	And he struck into the fire-pan or into the boiler, or into the kettle, or into the pot; all which the fork will bring up the priest will take for himself. So they will do to all Israel coming there into Shiloh.
15	Also before they will burn the fat and the boy of the priest came and said to the man sacrificing, Thou shalt give flesh to roast for the priest; and he will not take from thee flesh boiled but living.
16	And the man will say to him, Burning, they shall burn the fat as the day, and take to thee as thy soul shall desire; and he said to him, But now thou shalt give, and if not I will take by force.
17	And the sin of the boys will be exceedingly great before Jehovah, for the men despised the gifts of Jehovah.
18	And Samuel serving before Jehovah, a boy girded with an ephod of linen.
19	And his mother will make to him a little upper garment, and bring up to him from days to days, in her coming up with her husband to sacrifice the sacrifice of days.
20	And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, Jehovah will set up to thee seed of this woman for the loan which was lent to Jehovah. And they went to his place.
21	For Jehovah reviewed Hannah, and she will conceive and bear three sons and two daughters. And the boy Samuel will be magnified with Jehovah.
22	And Eli a very old man, and he heard all that his sons did to all Israel; and they will lie with the women going forth at the door of the tent of appointment.
23	And he will say to them, Wherefore will ye do according to these words? which I heard very evil words of all this people.
24	Nay, sons, for not a good report which I heard: causing the people of Jehovah to pass by.
25	If a man shall sin against a man, and God judged him; and if a man shall sin against Jehovah, who shall judge for him? and they will not hear to the voice of their father for Jehovah was willing to destroy them.
26	And the boy Samuel going, will become great and good, also with Jehovah and with men.
27	And a man of God will come to Eli and say to him, Thus said Jehovah, Revealing myself, I was revealed to the house of thy father in their being in Egypt to the house of Pharaoh.
28	And choosing him from all the tribes of Israel to me for priest, to bring up upon mine altar to burn incense, to lift up the ephod before me; and I gave to the house of thy father all the fires of the sons of Israel.
29	Wherefore will ye trample upon my sacrifice and upon my gifts which I commanded to my habitation? and thou wilt honor thy sons above me to fatten yourselves from the chief of all the gifts of Israel my people.
30	For this Jehovah the God of Israel said, Saying, I said, Thy house and the house of thy father shall go before me even forever: and now Jehovah said, Far be it for me; for them honoring me I will honor, and they despising me shall be contemned.
31	Behold, the days coming and I cut off thy seed and the seed of thy father’s house from being old in thy house.
32	And thou lookedst upon the straits of the habitation in all which shall seem good with Israel; and an old man shall not be in thy house all the days.
33	And a man I will not cut off to thee from mine altar to finish thine eyes and to cause thy soul to pine away: and all the increase of thy house, the men, shall die.
34	And this the sign to thee which shall come to thy two sons to Hophni and Phinehas: in one day they two shall die.
35	And I raised up to me a faithful priest, as in my heart and in my soul he shall do: and I built to him a faithful house; and he went before my Messiah all the days.
36	And it was all being left in thy house shall go to worship to him for a piece of silver and a round of bread; and he said, Add me to one of the priesthoods to eat a morsel of bread.