1	 And David will come to Nob to Abimelech the priest: and Abimelech will tremble to meet David, and he will say to him, Wherefore thou thyself alone and no man with thee?
2	 And David will say to Abimelech the priest, The king commanded me a word, and he will say to me, A man shall not know any thing of the word for which I sent thee, and what I commanded thee: and the boys I showed to such a place a certain one.
3	 And now what is under thy hand? five of bread thou shalt give into my hand, or that being found.
4	 And the priest will answer David and say, No common bread under my hand, but there is consecrated bread; if the boys watched themselves only from women.
5	 And David will answer the priest and say to him, That truly woman was withheld to us for yesterday the third day, in my coming forth, and the vessels of the boys holy, and this way common, and truly if this day it shall be consecrated in the vessel.
6	 And the priest will give to him the holy, for there was not there bread except the bread of the face, being taken away from before Jehovah to put hot bread in the day of taking it.
7	 And a man there from the servants of Saul in that day, withheld before Jehovah; and his name Doeg, the Edomite, a powerful one of the shepherds which were to Saul.
8	 And David will say to Ahimelech, And is there not here under thy hand, spear or sword? for also sword and also utensil I took not into my hand, for the king’s word was pressing.
9	 And the priest will say, The sword of Goliah the rover, whom thou didst strike in the valley of the oak, behold, it wrapped up in a garment behind the ephod: if thou wilt take it to thee, take, for no other beside it here. And David will say, None like it; thou shalt give it to me.
10	 And David will rise and flee in that day from the face of Saul, and he will come to Achish, king of Gath.
11	 And the servants of Achish will say to him, Is not this David king of the land? will they not answer to this in dances, saying, Saul struck against his thousands and David against his ten thousands?
12	 And David will set these words in his heart, and he will be afraid greatly of the face of Achish, king of Gath.
13	 And he will change his understanding in their eyes, and he will be foolish in their hand, and he will mark upon the doors of the gate, and his spittle will come down upon his beard.
14	 And Achish will say to his servants, Behold, ye will see the man raving: wherefore will ye bring him to me?
15	 Do I want mad men that ye brought this to rave to me? shall this come into my house?