1	Adam, Seth, Enosh,
2	Kenan, Malialaleel, Jered,
3	Henoch, Methusaleh, Lamech,
4	Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
5	The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech and Tiras.
6	And the sons of Gomer: Ashchenaz and Riphath, and Togarmah.
7	The sons of Javan: Elishah, and Tarshish, Chittim and Dodanim.
8	The sons of Ham: Cush, and Mizraim, Put, and Canaan.
9	The sons of Cush: Seba, and Havilah, and Sabta, and Raamah, and Sabtecha. And the sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan.
10	And Cush begat Nimrod. He began to be strong in the earth.
11	And Mizraim begat Ludim and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
12	And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (which came forth from them the Philisteim) and Caphtorim.
13	And Canaan begat Zidon, his firstborn, and Heth,
14	And the Jesubite, and the Amorite, and Girgashite,
15	And the Hivite, and the Archite, and the Sinite,
16	And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite,
17	The sons of Shem: Elam, and Ashur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech,
18	And Arphaxad begat Shelah and Shelah begat Eber.
19	And to Eber being born two sons: the name of the one Peleg, for in his days was the earth divided: and the name of the brother Joktan.
20	And Joktan began Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah.
21	Hadoram, and Uzal and Diklah,
22	And Ebal, and Abimael, and Sheba,
23	And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobah All these sons of Joktan.
24	Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah,
25	Eber, Peleg, Reu.
26	Serug, Nahor, Terah,
27	Abram: he is Abraham,
28	The sons of Abraham: Isaak, and Ishmael.
29	These their generations: Ishmael, Nebaioth; and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
30	Mishmah, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema,
31	Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These the sons of Ishmael.
32	And the sons of Keturah, Abraham’s concubine: she brought forth Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan; Sheba, and Dedan.
33	And the sons of Midian: Ephah, and Epher and Henoch, and Abidah, and Eldaah: All these the sons of Keturah.
34	And Abraham will beget Isaak. The sons of Isaak: Esau and Israel.
35	The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, and Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah.
36	The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, and Omar, Zephi, and Gatam, Kenaz, and Timna, and Amalek.
37	The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, Mizzah,
38	And the sons of Seir: Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan.
39	And the sons of Lotan: Hori, and Homam: and the sister of Lotan, Timna.
40	And the sons of Shobal: Alian and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. And the sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah.
41	The sons of Anah: Dishon and the sons of Dishon: Hamram and Eshban, and Ithran and Charm.
42	The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, and Zavan and Jakan. The sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.
43	And these the kings which reigned in the land of Edom before a king reigned for the sons of Israel: Bela the son of Beor: and the name of his city Dinhabah.
44	And Bela will die, and Jobab son of Zerah of Borah will reign in his stead.
45	And Jobab will die, and Husham from the land of the Temanites will reign in his stead.
46	And Husham will die, and Hadad son of Bedad will reign in his stead: he struck Midian in the field of Moab: and the name of his city, Avith.
47	And Hadad will die, and Samlah of Mazrekah will reign in his stead.
48	And Samlah will die, and Saul from Rehoboth of the river will reign in his stead.
49	And Saul will die, and Baal Hanan son of Achbor will reign in his stead.
50	And Baal-Hanan will die, and Hadad will reign in his stead: and the name of his city Pai; and the name of his wife was Mehetabel, daughter of Matred, daughter of Mezahab.
51	And Hadad will die. And the chiefs of Edom will be chief Timna, chief Aliah, chief Jetheth.
52	Chief Aholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon,
53	Chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar,
54	Chief Magdiel, chief Iram. These the chiefs of Edom.