1	And all Israel will gather together to David to Hebron, saying, Behold, we thy bone and thy flesh.
2	Also yesterday also the third day, also in Saul being king thou wert bringing forth and bringing in Israel: and Jehovah thy God will say to thee, Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be leader over my people Israel.
3	And all the old men of Israel will come to the king to Hebron; and David will cut out to them a covenant in Hebron before Jehovah; and they will anoint David for king over Israel according to the word of Jehovah by the hand of Samuel.
4	And David will go, and all Israel to Jerusalem; this is Jebus; and there the Jebusites dwelling in the land.
5	And they dwelling in Jebus will say to David, Thou shalt not come in hither. And David will take the castle of Zion, this the city of David.
6	And David will say, Every one striking the Jebusites the first shall be for head and for chief. And Joab son of Zeruiah, will go up at first, and he will be for head.
7	And David dwelt in the castle; for this they called to it the city of David.
8	And he will build the city from round about from Millo, and even round about: and Joab will revive the remainder of the city.
9	And David will go, going and growing great: and Jehovah of armies with him.
10	And these the heads, strong ones, which were to David, strengthening themselves with him in his kingdom, with all Israel, to cause him to reign according to the word of Jehovah upon Israel.
11	And these the number of strong ones which were to David; Jashobeam, son of Hachmoni, head of the thirty; he lifted up his spear against three hundred wounding at one time.
12	And after him Eleazar, son of Dodo, the Ahohite, he among the three strong ones.
13	He was with David in Pasdammim, and the rovers were gathered together there to war, and there will be a portion of the field filled with barley; and the people fled from before the rovers.
14	And they will set themselves in the midst of the portion, and they will deliver it and will strike the rovers; and Jehovah will save a great salvation.
15	And the three from the thirty heads will go down upon the rock to David to the cave of Adullam; and the camp of the rovers encamped in the valley of Rephaim.
16	And David then in the castle, and a garrison of the rovers then in the house of bread.
17	And David will long, and say, Who will give me to drink from the water from the well of the house of bread, which is in the gate?
18	And the three will break forth into the camp of the rovers, and draw waters from the well of the house of bread which is in the gate, and they will lift up and bring to David: and David would not drink them, and he will pour them forth to Jehovah.
19	And he will say, Far be it to me from my God from doing this: shall I drink the blood of these men with their souls? for with their souls they brought them. And he would not drink them. These did the three strong ones.
20	And Abishai, brother of Joab, he was head of the three: and he lifted up his spear against three hundred; he wounded, and to a name among the three.
21	Of the three, above the two he was honored; and will be to them for chief: and even to the three he came not.
22	Benaiah son of Jehoida, son of a man of power, great of deeds, from Kabzeel, he struck two lions of god of Moab: and he went down and struck the lion in the midst of the pit in the day of snow.
23	And he struck the man, the Egyptian, a man of measure, five by the cubit; and in the hand of the Egyptian a spear as the beam of those weaving; and he went down to him with a rod, and he will take by force the spear from the hand of the Egyptian, and he will kill him with his spear.
24	These did Benaiah son of Jehoida; and to him a name among the three strong ones.
25	From the thirty, behold, he was honored, and to three he came not: and David will set him over his audience.
26	And the strong ones of the forces, Asahel, brother of Joab, Elhanan son of Dodo from the house of bread,
27	Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite,
28	Ira son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abiezer the Anathothite,
29	Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite,
30	Maharai the Netophathite, Heled son of Baanah the Netophathite,
31	Ithai son of Ribai from Gibeah, the sons of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite,
32	Hurai from the torrents of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,
33	Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliaba the Shaalbonite,
34	The sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan son of Shage the Harorite,
35	Ahiam son of Sacar the Harorite, Eliphal son of Ur,
36	Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite,
37	Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai son of Ezbai,
38	Joel, brother of Nathan, Mibhar son of Haggeri,
39	Zelek the Ammonite, Nahami the Berothite, lifting up the utensils of Joab son of Zeruiah,
40	Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,
41	Uriah the Hittite, Zabad son of Athlai,
42	Adina son of Shiza the Reubenite, head to the Reubenites, and with him thirty,
43	Hanan son of Maachah, and Josaphat the Mithnite,
44	Uzziah the Ashterathite, Shama and Jehiel, the sons of Hothan the Aroerite,
45	Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his brother the Tizite,
46	Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai and Joshaviah, sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite,
47	Eliel and Obed and Jasiel, the Mesobaite.