1	And he will make to himself houses in the city of David, and, he will prepare a place for the ark of God, and will spread for it a tent.
2	Then David said, None to lift up the ark of God but the Levites: for in them God chose to lift up the ark of God, and to serve him even to forever.
3	And David will convoke all Israel together to Jerusalem, to lift up the ark of Jehovah to its place which he prepared for it.
4	And David will gather together the sons of Aaron and the Levites:
5	To the sons of Kohath: Uriel the chief and his brethren, a hundred and twenty:
6	To the sons of Merari: Asaiah the chief and his brethren, two hundred and twenty:
7	To the sons of Gershom: Joel the chief and his brethren, a hundred and thirty:
8	To the sons of Elizaphan: Shemaiah the chief and his brethren, two hundred:
9	To the sons of Hebron: Eliel the chief and his brethren, eighty:
10	To the sons of Uzziel: Aminadad the chief and his brethren, a hundred and twelve.
11	And David will call for Zadok and for Abiathar the priests, and for the Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, and Joel, Shemaiah, and Eliel and Aminadab,
12	And he will say to them, Ye heads of the fathers to the Levites: ye shall purify yourselves, ye and your brethren, and bring ye up the ark of Jehovah the God of Israel to that I prepared for it.
13	For ye not from the first, Jehovah our God broke forth upon us, for we sought him not according to judgment.
14	And the priests will purify themselves and the Levites to bring up the ark of Jehovah God of Israel.
15	And the sons of the Levites will lift up the ark of God as Moses commanded, according to the word of Jehovah, upon the shoulders, with the rods upon them.
16	And David will say to the chiefs of the Levites to cause their brethren to stand singing with every instrument of song, lyres and harps, and cymbals, causing to hear to lift up with the voice for joy.
17	And the Levites wilt set up Heman son of Joel; and from his brethren, Asaph son of Berechiah; and from the sons of Merari their brethren, Ethan son of Kushaiah;
18	And with them their brethren being second, Zechariah the son, and Jahaziel and Shemiramoth and Jehiel, and Unni, Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obed-Edom, Jeiel, gate-keepers.
19	And those singing, Heman, Asaph and Ethan, with cymbals of brass to cause to hear;
20	And Zechariah, and Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and Benaiah, with lyres upon Alemoth;
21	And Mattithiah and Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obed-Edom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, with harps upon the Sheminith to shine.
22	And Chenaniah chief of the Levites, in lifting up, admonished in the lifting up, for he discerning.
23	And Berechiah and Elkanah gate-keepers to the ark.
24	And Shebaniah and Jehoshaphat, and Nathaniel, and Amasai, and Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer the priests, trumpeting with trumpets before the ark of God: and Obed-Edom and Jehiah, gate-keepers to the ark.
25	And David will be, and the old men of Israel and the chiefs of thousands, going to bring up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah from the house of Obed-Edom with joy.
26	And it will be in God’s helping the Levites lifting up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, and they will sacrifice seven bullocks and seven rams.
27	And David being girded with an upper garment of byssus, and all the Levites lifting up the ark and those singing, and Chenaniah the chief of the lifting up of those singing: and upon David an ephod of linen.
28	And all Israel bringing up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah with a signal and with the voice of the horn, and with trumpets and with cymbals causing to hear, and with lyres and harps.
29	And the ark of the covenant of Jehovah will be coming even to the city of David, and Michel daughter of Saul, looking forth from a window, and she will see king David leaping and playing: and she will despise him in her heart.