1	And they will bring the ark of God and set it in the midst of the tent which David stretched out for it: and they will bring near burnt-offerings and peace before God.
2	And David will finish the bringing up of the burnt-offering and the peace, and he will bless the people in the name of Jehovah.
3	And he will divide to every man of Israel from man and even to woman, to each a round of bread, and a measure and cakes.
4	And he will give before the ark of Jehovah from the Levites serving, and for keeping in remembrance, and to confess and to praise to Jehovah God of Israel.
5	Asaph the head, and his second, Zechariah, Jeiel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obed-Edom: and Jeiel with instruments of lyres and harps; and Asaph with trumpets causing to hear;
6	And Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests with trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God.
7	In that day thus David gave at the first to confess to Jehovah by the hand of Asaph and his brethren.
8	Confess ye to Jehovah, call upon his name, make known among the peoples his deeds.
9	Sing ye to him, play on the harp to him, speak upon all his wonders.
10	Praise ye in his holy name: the heart of those seeking Jehovah shall rejoice.
11	Seek ye Jehovah and his strength, seek his face always.
12	Remember ye his wonders which he did, and his miracles, and the judgments of his mouth;
13	O ye seed of Israel his servant, ye sons of Jacob his chosen ones.
14	He Jehovah our God; in all the earth his judgments.
15	Remember ye forever his covenant; the word be commanded to a thousand generations;
16	Which he cut out with Abraham, and his oath to Isaak.
17	And he will cause it to stand to Jacob for a law, to Israel a covenant forever,
18	Saying, To thee I will give the land of Canaan, the cord of your inheritance;
19	In your being men of number, as few, and strangers in it.
20	And they will go about from nation to nation, and from kingdom to another people;
21	And he permitted not to a man to oppress them: and for them he will reprove kings:
22	Ye shall not touch upon my Messiah, and upon my prophets ye shall not do evil.
23	Sing ye to Jehovah, all the earth; announce good news, from day to day his salvation.
24	Recount his glory among the nations; his wonders among all peoples.
25	For great is Jehovah, and greatly praised: and he to be feared above all gods.
26	For all the gods of the peoples nothings: and Jehovah made the heavens.
27	Glory and honor before his face; strength and joy in his place.
28	Give to Jehovah ye families of the peoples, give to Jehovah glory and strength.
29	Give ye to Jehovah the glory of his name: lift up a gift and come before him: worship to Jehovah the ornaments of holiness.
30	Tremble from before him, all ye earth: also the habitable globe shall be set up, it shall not be shaken.
31	The heavens shall rejoice, and the earth shall exult: and they shall say among the nations, Jehovah reigned:
32	The sea shall tremble and its fulness, and the field shall rejoice and all that is in it.
33	Then shall the trees of the forest shout from the face of Jehovah, for he came to judge the earth.
34	Confess ye to Jehovah, for he is good, for his mercy is forever.
35	And say ye, Save us, God of our salvation, and gather us together and deliver us from the nations, to confess to thy holy name, to glory in thy praise.
36	Praised be Jehovah God of Israel from forever and even to forever. And all the people will say, Amen, and praise to Jehovah.
37	And he will leave there before the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, to Asaph and to his brethren, to serve before the ark always, for the word of a day in its day.
38	And Obed-Edom and his brethren, sixty and eight; and Obed-Edom son of Jeduthun and Hosah for gate-keepers:
39	And Zadok the priest, and his brethren the priests, before the dwelling of Jehovah in the height which is in Gibeon.
40	To bring up burnt-offerings to Jehovah upon the altar of burnt-offering always at morning and at evening, and according to all written in the law of Jehovah which he charged upon Israel;
41	And with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest being chosen, who were separated by names to confess to Jehovah: for his mercy is forever.
42	And with them Heman and Jeduthun, with trumpets and cymbals to cause to hear, and instruments of song of God. And the sons of Jeduthun at the gate.
43	And all the people will go each to his house: and David will turn about to bless his house.