1	And the sons of Israel for their number, heads of the fathers and chiefs of thousands and hundreds, and their scribes serving the king for all the word of the divisions coming in and going forth month by month for all the months of the year, of the one division, twenty and four thousand.
2	Over the first division for the first month, Jashobeam, son of Zabdiel: and upon his division twenty and four thousand.
3	From the sons of Perez the head to all the chief of the armies for the first month.
4	And over the course of the second month, Dodai the Ahohite, and his division, Mikloth the leader: and for his division twenty and four thousand.
5	The chief of the army the third for the third month, Benaiah son of Jehoida the head priest: and for his division twenty and four thousand.
6	This the Benaiah the strong one of the thirty, and over the thirty: and his division Ammisabad his son.
7	The fourth for the fourth month, Asahel, brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him: and for his division twenty and four thousand.
8	The fifth for the fifth month, the chief Shamhuth the Izrahite: and for his division twenty and four thousand.
9	The sixth for the sixth month, Ira son of Ikkesh the Tekoite: and over his division twenty and four thousand.
10	The seventh for the seventh month, Helez the Pelonite, from the sons of Ephraim: and for his division twenty and four thousand.
11	The eighth for the eighth month, Sibbecai the Hushathite to the Zarhites: and for his division twenty and four thousand.
12	The ninth for the ninth month, Abiezer the Anathothite for the Benjamites: and for his division twenty and four thousand.
13	The tenth for the tenth month, Maharai the Netophathite to the Zarhites: and for his division twenty and four thousand.
14	The eleventh for the eleventh month, Benaiah the Pirathonite from the sons of Ephraim: and for his division twenty and four thousand.
15	The twelfth for the twelfth month, Heldai the Netophathite, to Othniel: and for his division twenty and four thousand.
16	And over the tribes of Israel: for the Reubenites, the leader, Eliezer son of Zichri: for the Simeonites Shephatiah son of Maacah.
17	For the Levites: Hashabiah son of Kemuel: to Aaron: Zadok:
18	To Judah: Elihu, from the brethren of David: to Issachar, Omri, son of Michael:
19	To Zebulon: Ishmaiah son of Obadiah: to Naphtali: Jerimoth son of Azriel:
20	To the sons of Ephraim: Hoshea son of Azaziah: to the half tribe of Manasseh: Joel son of Pedaiah:
21	To the half of Manasseh-Gilead: Iddo son of Zechariah: to Benjamin: Jaasiel, son of Abner:
22	To Dan: Azriel son of Jeroham. These the chiefs of the tribes of Israel.
23	And David lifted not up their number, from the son of twenty years and beneath: for Jehovah said to multiply Israel as the stars of the heavens.
24	Joab son of Zeruiah began to number, and finished not, for there will be wrath upon this against Israel; and the number went not up into the Amber of the words of the days to king David.
25	And over the treasures of the king, Azmaveth son of Adiel: and over the treasures in the field, in the cities, and in the villages, and in the towers, Jehonathan son of Uzziah:
26	And over those doing the work of the field for the service of the earth, Ezri son of Caleb:
27	And over the vineyards, Shimei the Ramothite: and over the increase of the vineyards for the treasures of wine, Zabdi the Shiphmite:
28	And over the olive trees and the sycamores which are in the low country, Baal-Hanan the Gederite: and over the treasures of oil, Joash:
29	And over the cattle feeding in Sharon, Shitrai the Sharonite: and over the cattle in the valleys, Shaphat son of Adlai:
30	And over the camels, Obil the Ishmaelite: and over the asses, Jehdeiah the Meronothite:
31	And over the sheep, Jaziz the Hagerite. All these the chiefs of the possessions which were to king David.
32	And Jehonathan, David’s uncle, counseling a man of understanding, and he a scribe: and Jehiel son of Hachmoni with the sons of the king:
33	And Ahithophel counseling to the king: and Hushai the Archite the friend of the king:
34	And after Ahithophel, Jeboida son of Benaiah, and Abiathar: and the chief of the army to the king, Joab.