1	The sons of Judah: Pharez, Hezron and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal.
2	And Reaiah the son of Shobal begat Jahath; and Jahath begat Ahumai and Lahad. These the families of the Zorathites.
3	And these of the father of Etam: Jezreel and Ishma, and Idbash: and the name of their sister, Hazelelponi:
4	And Penuel the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These the sons of Hur, the first-born of Ephratah, the father of the house of bread.
5	And to Ashur the father of Tekoa, were two wives, Helah and Naarah.
6	And Naarah will bear to him Ahuzzam and Hepher, and Temeni, and Hahashtari. These the sons of Naraah.
7	And the sons of Helah, Zereth, Jezoar, and Ethnan.
8	And Coz begat Anub and Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel son of Harum.
9	And Jabez was honorable above his brethren: and his mother called his name Jabez, saying, For I bare with pain.
10	And Jabez will call to God of Israel, saying, If blessing, thou wilt bless me and enlarge my bound, and thine hand were with me, and didst me from evil, so as not to afflict me! And God will bring what he asked.
11	And Chelub the brother of Shuah begat Mehir, he the father of Eshton.
12	And Eshton begat the house of healing, and Paseah and Tehinnah the father of the city of enchantment These are the men of Rechab.
13	And the sons of Kenaz: Othniel and Seraiah. And the sons of Othniel: Hathath.
14	And Meonothai begat Ophrah: and Seraiah begat Joab the father of the valley of workmen; for they were artificers.
15	And the sons of Caleb son of Jephunneh: Iru, Elah, and Naam: and the sons of Elah: Kenaz.
16	And the sons of Jehalaleel: Ziph, and Ziphah, Tiria and Asareel.
17	And the sons of Ezra, Jether and Mered, and Epher, and Jalon: and she will conceive Miriam and Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa.
18	And his wife Jelrudijah bear Jered the father of Gedor, and Heber the father of Socho, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. And these the sons of Bithiah, daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered took.
19	And the sons of the woman Hodiah the sister of Naham, the father of Keilah the Garmite, and Eshtemoa, the Maachathite.
20	And the sons of Shimon, Ammon and Rinnah, son of Hanan, and Tilon. And the sons of Ishi, Zoheth and the son of Zoheth.
21	The sons of Shelah son of Judah, Er, the father of Lecah, and Laadah, fathers of Mareshah, and the families of the house of the working of the byssus to the house of Ashbea,
22	And Jokim, and the men of Chozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who possessed to Moab, and dwelling to them. And ancient words.
23	These the potters, and they dwelling with plants and in the enclosure: with the king in his work they dwelt there.
24	The sons of Simeon, Nemuel and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, and Saul:
25	Shallum his son, Mibsam his sun, Mishma his son.
26	And the sons of Mishma: Hamuel his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son.
27	And to Shimei, sixteen sons and six daughters: and to his brethren not many sons, and all their families did not multiply even to the sons of Judah.
28	And they dwelt at the well of the oath, and the birth and enclosure of the fox.
29	And at Bilhah, and at Ezem, and at Tolad,
30	And at Bethuel, and at Hormah, and at Ziklag,
31	And at the house of Chariots, and at the enclosure of horses, and at the house of my creation, and at the gates. These their cities even to king David.
32	And their villages Etam and Ain, Rimmon and Tochen, and Ashan; five cities.
33	And all their villages which were round about these cities even to Baal These their habitations and their enrolling for them.
34	Meshobab and Jamlech, and Joshah, the son of Amaziah,
35	And Joel, and Jehu son of Josibiah, son of Seraiah, son of Asiel,
36	And Elioenai, and Jaakobah, and Jehoshaiah, and Asaiah, and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benaiah,
37	And Ziza son of Shiphi, son of Alon, son of Jedaiah, son of Shimri, son of Shemaiah.
38	These coming by names, princes in their families: and the house of their fathers broke forth to a multitude.
39	And they will come to the entrance of Gedor, even to the sunrising of the valley to seek pasture for their sheep.
40	And they will find fat pasture and good, and the land wide of hands and resting and quiet; for from Ham dwelling there before.
41	And these being written by names, will come in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and they will strike their tents and their dwellings those being found there, and they will exterminate them even to this day, and they will dwell instead of them, for pasture there for their sheep.
42	And from them from the sons of Simeon, went to mount Seir, five hundred men, and Pelatiah, and Neariah, and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, sons of Ishi, for their heads.
43	And they will strike the rest of the escaping to Amalek, and they will dwell there even to this day.