1	And the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
2	And the sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.
3	And the sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses and Miriam. And the sons of Aaron: Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
4	Eleazar begat Phinehas, Phinehas begat Abishua,
5	And Abishua begat Bukki, and Bukki begat Uzzi,
6	And Uzzi begat Zerahiah, and Zerahiah begat Meraioth,
7	Meraioth begat Amariah, and Amariah begat Ahitub,
8	And Ahitub begat Zadok, and Zadok begat Ahimaaz,
9	And Ahimaaz begat Azariah, and Azariah begat Johanan,
10	And Johanan begat Azariah, he who was the priest in the house that Solomon built in Jerusalem:
11	And Azariah will beget Amariah, and Amariah begat Ahitub,
12	And Ahitub begat Zadok, and Zadok begat Shallum,
13	And Shallum begat Hilkiab, and Hilkiah begat Azariah,
14	And Azariah begat Seraiah, and Seraiah begat Jehozadek,
15	And Jehozadek went away in Jehovah’s carrying away into exile Judah and Jerusalem by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.
16	The sons of Levi: Gershom, hath and Merari.
17	And these the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei.
18	And the sons of Kohath, Amram and Izhar, and Hebron and Uzziel.
19	The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. And these the families of the Levites according to their fathers.
20	To Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,
21	Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeaterai his son.
22	The sons of Kohath: Aminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son,
23	Elkanah his son, and Ebiasaph his son, and Assir his son,
24	Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Saul his son.
25	And the sons of Elkanah: Amasai, and Ahimoth.
26	Elkanah, the sons of Elkanah Zophai his son and Nahath his son.
27	Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son.
28	And the sons of Samuel: the first-born, Vashni and Abiah.
29	The sons of Merari: Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzza his son,
30	Shimea his son, Haggish his son, Asaiah his son.
31	And these whom David set up over the hands of song of the house of Jehovah from the resting of the ark.
32	And they will be serving before the dwelling of the tent of appointment in song even till Solomon built the house of Jehovah in Jerusalem: and they will stand according to their judgment over their service.
33	And these standing and their sons. From the sons of the Kohathites: Heman singing, son of Joel, son of Samuel,
34	Son of Elkanah, son of Jeroham, son of Eliel, son of Toah,
35	Son of Zuph, son of Elkanah, son of Mahath, son of Amasai,
36	Son of Elkanah, son of Joel, son of Azariah, son of Zephaniah,
37	Son of Tahath, son of Assir, son of Ebiasaph, son of Korah,
38	Son of Izhar, son of Kohath, son of Levi, son of Israel.
39	And his brother Asaph standing at his right hand, Asaph the son of Berachiah the son of Shimea,
40	The son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchiah,
41	The son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah,
42	The son of Ethan, son of Zimmah, son of Shimei,
43	Son of Jahath, son of Gershom, son of Levi.
44	And the sons of Merari their brethren at the left: Ethan son of Kishi, son of Abdi, son of Malluch,
45	Son of Hashabiah, son of Amaziah, son of Hilkiah,
46	Son of Amzi, son of Bath, son of Shamer,
47	Son of Mahli, son of Mushi, son of Merari, son of Levi.
48	And their brethren the Levites being given to all the service of the dwelling of the house of God.
49	And Aaron and his sons burning incense upon the altar of the burnt-offering, and upon the altar of incense for all the work of the holy of holies, and to expiate for Israel according to all that Moses the servant of God commanded.
50	And these the sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son,
51	Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son,
52	Moraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,
53	Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.
54	And these their dwellings for their walls in their bound to the sons of Aaron to the families to the Kohathites: for to them was the lot.
55	And they will give to them Hebron in the land of Judah, and its areas round about it.
56	And the field of the city and its enclosures they gave to Caleb son of Jephunneh,
57	And to the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of refuge, Hebron and Libnah and her areas, and Jattir and Eshtemoa, and her areas,
58	And Hilen and her areas, and Debir and her areas,
59	And Ashan and her areas, and the house of the sun and her areas:
60	And from the tribe of Benjamin: Geba and her areas, and Alemeth and her areas, and Anathoth and her areas. All their cities thirteen cities in their families.
61	And to the sons of Kohath being left from the family of the tribe from the half tribe, the half of Manasseh, by lot, ten cities.
62	And to the sons of Gershom for their families from the tribe of Issachar, and from the tribe of Asher, and from the tribe of Naphtali, and from the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities.
63	To the sons of Merari for their families from the tribe of Reuben, and from the tribe of Gad, and from the tribe of Zebulon, by lot, twelve cities.
64	And the sons of Israel will give to the Levites cities and their areas.
65	And they will give by lot from the tribe of the sons of Judah, and from the tribe of the sons of Simeon, and from the tribe of the sons of Benjamin, these cities which they called them by names.
66	And from the families of the sons of Kohath and there will be cities of their bound from the tribe of the sons of Ephraim.
67	And they will give to them the cities of refuge, Shechem and her areas in mount Ephraim and Gezer and her areas,
68	And Jokmeam and her areas, and the house of the hollow and her areas,
69	And Ajalon and her areas, and Gath-Rimmon and her areas.
70	And from the half tribe of Manasseh: Aner and her areas, and Bileam and her areas for the families remaining to the sons of Kohath.
71	To the sons of Gershom from the families of half the tribe of Manasseh, Golan in Bashan and her areas and Ashtaroth and her areas:
72	And from the tribe of Issachar: Kadesh and her areas, Daberah and her areas,
73	And Ramoth and her areas, and Anem and her areas:
74	And from the tribe of Asher: Mashal and her areas, and Abdon and her areas,
75	And Hukok and her areas, and Rehob and her areas;
76	And from the tribe of Naphtali: Kadesh in Galilee and her areas, and Hammon and her areas, and Kirjathaim and her areas.
77	To the sons of Merari remaining from the tribe of Zebulon Rimmon and her areas, Tabor and her areas:
78	And from beyond Jordan of Jericho to the sunrising of Jordan, from the tribe of Reuben, Bezer in the desert and her areas, and Jahzah and her areas,
79	And Kedemoth and her areas, and Mephaath and her areas.
80	And from the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead and her areas, and Mahanaim and her areas.
81	And Heshbon and her areas, and Jazer and her areas.