1	And Benjamin begat Bela his first-born, and Ashbel the second, and Aharah the third,
2	Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
3	And the sons to Bela will be Adar and Gera and Abihud,
4	And Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah,
5	And Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram.
6	And these the sons of Ehud: these the heads of the fathers to the inhabitants of Geba; and they will carry them away captive to Manahath.
7	And Naaman and Ahiah and Gera, he carried them away captive; and he begat Uzza and Ahihud.
8	And Shaharaim begat in the field of Moab from his sending them away; Hushim and Baara his wives.
9	And he will beget from Hodesh his wife, Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcham,
10	And Jeuz and Shachiah and Mirma. These his sons, heads of the fathers,
11	And from Hushim he begat Abitub and Elpaal.
12	The sons of Elpaal: Eber, and Misham, and Shamei, he built Ono and Lod, and her daughters.
13	And Beriah and Shema, they the heads of the fathers to the inhabitants of Ajalon, they chased away the inhabitants of Gath:
14	And Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth,
15	And Zebadiah, and Arad, and Ader,
16	And Michael, and Ispah, and Joha, sons of Beriah;
17	And Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hezeki, and Heber,
18	And Ishmerai, and Jezliah, and Jobab, sons of Elpaal;
19	And Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi,
20	And Elienai, and Zilthai, and Eliel,
21	And Adaiah, and Baraiah, and Shimrath, sons of Shimhi;
22	And Ishpan and Eber and Eliel,
23	And Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan,
24	And Hananiah, and Elam, and Antothijah,
25	And Iphedeiah, and Penuel, the sons of Shashak;
26	And Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah,
27	And Jaresiah, and Eliah, and Zichri, sons of Jeroham.
28	These the heads of the fathers to their generations, heads. These dwelt in Jerusalem.
29	And in Gibeon they dwelt, the father of Gibeon; and the name of his wife Maacah:
30	And his son the first-born, Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab,
31	And Gedor, and Ahio, and Zaccur.
32	And Mikloth begat Shimeah. And these also over against their brethren dwelt in Jerusalem with their brethren.
33	And Ner begat Kish, and Kish begat Saul, and Saul begat Jonathan, and Malchi-Shua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
34	And the son of Jonathan Merib-Baal; and Merib-Baal begat Micah.
35	And the sons of Micah: Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and Ahaz.
36	And Ahaz begat Jehoadah, and Jehoadah begat. Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri begat Moza,
37	And Moza begat Binea: Rapha his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
38	And to Azel six sons, and these their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. All these the sons of Azel.
39	And the sons of Eshek his brother, Ulam his first-born, Jelrush the second, and Eliphalet the third.
40	And the sons of Ulam will be strong men of power, bending the bow, and many sons and sons’ sons, a hundred and fifty. All these from the sons of Benjamin.