1	Upon which, myriads of the crowd having been gathered together, so as to tread upon one another, he began to speak to his disciples first, Keep yourselves from the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
2	And there is nothing covered, which shall not be revealed; and secret which shall not be known.
3	Therefore whatever ye have said in darkness shall be heard in light; and what ye spake to the ear in storehouses shall be proclaimed upon house-tops.
4	And I say to you, my friends, Be not afraid of those killing the body, and after these not having anything remaining to do.
5	And I will shew you whom ye should fear: Fear him having power, after killing, to cast into hell; yea, I say to you, Fear him.
6	Are not five little sparrows sold for two small coins, and one of them is not forgotten before God?
7	But also the hairs of your head were all numbered. Therefore fear not: ye have the preeminence over many little sparrows.
8	And I say to you, Every one who should acknowledge in me before men, also the Son of man will acknowledge in him before the messengers of God.
9	And he having denied me before men, shall he denied before the messengers of God.
10	And every one who shall say a word against the Son of man, it shall be remitted to him: and to him blaspheming against the Holy Spirit, it shall not be remitted.
11	And when they bring you to assemblies, and beginnings, and powers, have no anxiety how or what ye allege for justification, or what ye say:
12	For the Holy Spirit will teach you in that hour what ye must say.
13	And a certain one out of the crowd said to him, Teacher, speak to my brother to divide the inheritance with me.
14	And he said to him, Man, who appointed me judge or distributer over you.
15	And he said to them, See, and watch yourselves from covetousness: for not in the abounding to any one of his possessions is his life.
16	And he spake a parable to them, saying, The farm of a certain rich man bore well:
17	And he calculated in himself, saying, What shall I do, for I have not where I shall collect together my fruits?
18	And he said, This will I do: I will pull down my stores, and build greater; and there will I collect all my produce and my good things.
19	And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast many good things laid up for many years; rest, eat, drink, be gladdened.
20	And God said to him, O foolish one, this night they require thy soul from thee: and what thou hast prepared, to whom shall it be?
21	So he treasuring up for himself, and not rich toward God.
22	And he said to his disciples, Therefore I say to you, Have no anxiety for your soul, what ye eat; nor for the body what ye put on.
23	The soul is more than food, and the body than clothing.
24	Consider the ravens: for they sow not neither do they reap; to them there is not store-house nor store; and God nourishes them: how much more have ye preeminence of the fowls?
25	And which of you having anxiety can add to his size one cubit?
26	If then ye cannot do the least, why have ye anxiety for the rest?
27	Consider the white lilies, how they grow; they are not wearied, neither do they spin; and I say to you, neither was Solomon in all his glory clothed as one of these.
28	And if the grass, to day being in the field and to morrow cast into the furnace, God so clothes; how much rather you, ye of little faith?
29	And ye, seek ye not what ye eat, or what ye drink, and keep not in anxiety.
30	For all these things the nations of the world seek for: and your Father knows that ye have need of these.
31	But seek the kingdom of God; and all these shall be added to you.
32	Fear not, little flock; for your Father was contented to give you the kingdom.
33	Sell your possessions, and give alms; make to yourselves purses not growing old, an inexhaustible treasure in the heavens, where the thief approaches not, nor moth corrupts.
34	For where your treasure is, there also will be your heart.
35	Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning;
36	And ye like men expecting their Lord, when he shall loose from the nuptials; that having come and knocked, they might quickly open to him.
37	Happy those servants, whom the Lord having come shall find watching; truly I say to you, he will gird himself, and make them recline, and having come he will serve them.
38	And if he should come in the second watch, and should come in the third watch, and find so, happy are those servants.
39	And know this, that if the master of the house knew what hour the thief is coming, he had watched, and not have suffered his house to be undermined.
40	And be ye therefore ready: for in the time which ye think not the Son of man is coming.
41	And Peter said to him, Lord, sayest thou this parable to us, or also to all?
42	And the Lord said, Who then is that faithful and wise steward, which the Lord will set over his household, to give the allowance of wheat in due time?
43	Happy that servant, which his Lord, having come, shall find so doing.
44	Truly I say to you, that he will set him over all his possessions.
45	And if that servant should say in his heart, My Lord delays to come; and should begin to strike the servants and maids, also to eat and drink, and to be intoxicated;
46	The lord of that servant shall come in a day which he expects not, and in an hour which he knows not, and he will cut him in two equal parts, and set his portion with the unbelieving.
47	And that servant having known his lord’s will, and not prepared, neither having done his will, shall be skinned with many.
48	And he not having known, and having done things worthy of blows, shall be skinned with few. And to every one to whom much was given, shall much be required of him: and with whom they have deposited much, they will ask of him the more.
49	I have come to cast fire into the earth; and what will I if it has been already lighted up!
50	And I have an immersion to be immersed with; and how am I pressed together till it should be finished!
51	Think ye that I came to give peace in the earth? Nay, I say to you; but rather division:
52	For from now shall five be in one house divided, three against two, and two against three.
53	Father shall be divided against son, and son against father; mother against daughter, and daughter against mother; mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, and daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
54	And he said to the crowds, When ye see a cloud rising from the descents, ye say quickly, A heavy shower of rain is coming; and it is so.
55	And when the south wind blowing, ye say, That there will be heat; and it is.
56	O hypocrites, ye know to judge the face of the earth and of heaven; and how do ye not judge this time?
57	And why also of yourselves judge ye not the just thing?
58	For when thou retirest with thine adversary to the ruler, in the way give labor to be released from him; lest he drag thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the avenger, and the avenger cast thee into prison.
59	I say to thee, thou shouldest not come out thence, even till also thou shouldest give back the last small coin.