1	And he spake to them a parable, that they must always pray, and not lose courage;
2	Saying, There was a certain judge in a certain city, fearing not God, and not occupied about man:
3	And a widow was in that city; and she came to him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary.
4	And he would not for a time: and after these he said in himself, And if I fear not God, and am not occupied about man;
5	Yet because this widow produces fatigue to me, I will avenge her, lest in the end, coming, she give me a blow under the eyes.
6	And the Lord said, Hear ye what the judge of injustice says.
7	And shall not God do the avenging of his chosen, crying to him day and night, being slow to anger toward them?
8	I say to you, that he will do their avenging swiftly. But the Son of man having come, shall he find faith upon earth
9	And he spake to certain trusting upon themselves that they were just, and setting at nought the rest, this parable:
10	Two men went up to the temple to pray; one a Pharisee, and the other a publican.
11	The Pharisee having stood, prayed these to himself, O God, I return thee thanks that I am not as the rest of men, rapacious, unjust, adulterers, or also as this publican.
12	I fast twice of the Sabbath; I pay tithes of all I possess.
13	And the publican, standing afar off, would not either lift up the eyes to heaven, but struck upon his breast, saying, God propitiate for me the sinful.
14	I say to you, this one went down to his house justified rather than that one: for every one lifting up himself shall be humbled; and he humbling himself shall be lifted up.
15	And they also brought babes to him, that he might touch them: and the disciples having seen, censured them.
16	And Jesus having called them, said, Leave the young children to come to me, and hinder them not: for of such is time kingdom of God.
17	Truly I say to you, Whoever should not receive the kingdom of God as a young child should not enter into it.
18	And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good Teacher, having done what, shall I inherit eternal life?
19	And Jesus said to him, Why sayest thou me good? none good except the one God.
20	Thou knowest the commands, Thou shouldest not commit adultery, Thou shouldest not kill, Thou shouldest not steal, Thou shouldest not bear false testimony, Honour thy father and thy mother.
21	And he said, All these have I watched from my youth.
22	And Jesus having heard these, said to him, Yet one thing fails thee: all whatever thou hast, sell and distribute to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me.
23	And he having heard these things, was sorely grieved: for he was very rich.
24	And Jesus having seen him being sorely grieved, said, With how much difficulty shall they having possessions come into the kingdom of God!
25	For it is easier for a camel to come through the hole of a needle, than for a rich one to come into the kingdom of God.
26	And they having heard, said, And who can be saved?
27	And he said, The things impossible with men, are possible with God.
28	And Peter said, Behold, we have left all, and followed thee.
29	And he said to them, Truly I say to you, That there is none who has left home, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children, for sake of the kingdom of God,
30	Who should not receive many fold in this time, and in life coming, eternal life.
31	And taking the twelve, he said to them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things written by the prophets shall be completed to the Son of man.
32	For he shall be delivered to the nations, and be mocked, and insulted, and spit upon:
33	And having scourged, they shall kill him: and the third day he shall rise.
34	And they understood nothing of these things: and this word was hidden from them, and they discerned not the things spoken.
35	And it was in his drawing near to Jericho, a certain blind sat by the way, begging:
36	And having heard the multitude passing by, he inquired what this might be.
37	And they announced to him, That Jesus the Nazarite passes by.
38	And he cried out, saying, Jesus, son of David, pity me.
39	And they going before censured him, that he be silent: and he so much the more cried out, O son of David, pity me.
40	And Jesus having stood, commanded him to be brought to him: and he having drawn near, he asked him,
41	Saying, What wilt thou I shall do to thee? And he said, Lord, that I might see again.
42	And Jesus said to him, See again: thy faith has saved thee.
43	And he immediately saw again, and followed him, honouring God: and all the people having seen, gave praise to God.