1	And having come in, he passed through Jericho.
2	And, behold, a man, called Zaccheus by name, and he was chief of the publicans, and he was rich.
3	And he sought to see Jesus, who he is; and he could not, from the crowd, for he was small in size.
4	And having run before, he went up upon an Egyptian fig tree, that he might see him: for he was about to pass through that.
5	And when he came to the place, having looked up, Jesus saw him, and said to him, Zaccheus, having hastened, come down; for to day must I remain in thine house.
6	And having hasted, he came down, and received him rejoicing.
7	And all they having seen, murmured, saying, That he entered in to rest with a sinful man.
8	And Zaccheus having stood, said to the Lord, Behold, the half of my possessions, Lord, I give to the poor; and if I have made any false accusation against any one, I give back fourfold.
9	And Jesus said to him, That to day salvation has been to this house, as he is also a son of Abraham.
10	For the Son of man came to seek and to save the lost.
11	And they hearing these things, having added, he spake a parable, for he was near to Jerusalem, and they thought that immediately the kingdom of God is about to be rendered visible.
12	Then he said, A certain honourable man went into a country far off to take unto himself a kingdom, and to return.
13	And having called his ten servants, he gave them ten coins, and said to them, Attend to business, till I come.
14	And his citizens hated him, and sent an embassy after him, saying, We wish not this to reign over us.
15	And it was in his coming back, having received the kingdom, and he spake to have these servants called to him, to whom he gave the silver, that he might know who had attended to any business.
16	And the first approached, saying, Lord, thy coin has gained ten coins.
17	And he said to him, Well, good servant: because thou west faithful in the least, be thou having power over ten cities.
18	And the second came saying, Lord, thy coin made five coins.
19	And he said to him, And be thou over five cities.
20	And another came saying, Lord, behold, thy coin which I have placed in a napkin:
21	For I feared thee, for thou art an austere man: thou takest up what thou layedst not down, and thou reapest what thou didst not sow.
22	And he said to him, Out of thy month will I judge thee, O evil servant. Thou knewest that I am an austere man, taking up what I laid not down, and reaping what I sowed not:
23	And wherefore gavest thou not my silver to the bankers, and I having come had received it with interest?
24	And to those standing by he said, Take away from him the coin, and give to him having the ten coins.
25	(And they said to him, Lord, he has ten coins.)
26	For I say to you, That to every one having shall be given; and from him not having, and what he has shall be taken away from him.
27	But those mine enemies, not having wished me to reign over them, bring hither, and slaughter before me.
28	And having said these, he went before, going up to Jerusalem.
29	And it was as he drew near to Bethphage and Bethany, to the mount called of Olives, he sent two of his disciples,
30	Having said, Retire ye to the opposite town; in which entering, ye shall find a colt bound, upon which none of men at any time have sat: having loosed, bring him.
31	And if any ask you, Wherefore loose ye? thus shall ye say to him, Because the Lord has need of him.
32	And the sent, having departed, found as he said to them.
33	And they loosing the colt, his lords said to them, Why loose ye the colt?
34	And they said, The Lord has need of him.
35	And they brought him to Jesus: and having cast their garments upon the colt, they placed Jesus upon.
36	And he going, they laid down their garments in the way.
37	And he already drawing near to the descent of the mount of Olives, all the multitude of the disciples, rejoicing, began to praise God with a great voice for all the powers which they saw;
38	Saying, Praised the king coming in the name of the Lord: peace in heaven, and glory in the highest ones.
39	And certain of the Pharisees from the crowd said to him, Teacher, censure thy disciples.
40	And having answered, he said to them, I say to you, that if these should be silent, the stones shall cry out.
41	And as he drew near, having seen the city, he wept over it,
42	Saying, That if thou knewest, also thou, and also in this thy day, the things for thy peace! and now have they been hid from thine eyes.
43	For the days shall come upon thee, and thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, and keep thee together from all sides,
44	And they shall level thee with the ground, and thy children in thee; they shall not leave in thee stone upon stone; because thou knewest not the time of thine inspection.
45	And having come into the temple, he began to cast out them selling and buying in it;
46	Saying to them, It has been written, My house is the house of prayer: and ye have made it a den of robbers.
47	And he was teaching in the day in the temple. And the chief priests and scribes and the first of the people sought to destroy him,
48	And they found not what they might do: for all the people hearing hanged on him.