1	And it was in one of those days, he teaching the people in the temple, and announcing good news, there came forth the chief priests, and the scribes, and the more ancient,
2	And they spake to him, saying, Say to us, by what authority doest thou these? or who is he having given thee this authority?
3	And having answered he said to them, I will ask you one word; and tell me:
4	Was the immersion of John of heaven, or of men.
5	And they reckoned up together to themselves, saying, That if we say, of heaven; he will say, Why then did ye not believe him?
6	And if we say, of men; all the people will stone us: for they are persuaded John to be a prophet.
7	And they answered not to know from whence.
8	And Jesus said to them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do these.
9	And he began to say to the people this parable; A certain man planted a vineyard, and let it to farmers, and went abroad sufficient time.
10	And in time he sent a servant to the farmers, that they give him from the fruit of the vineyard: and the farmers, skinning, sent him out empty.
11	And he added to send another servant: and they also having skinned and dishonoured him, sent forth empty.
12	And he added to send a third; and also, having wounded, they cast him out.
13	And the lord of the vineyard said, What shall I do I will send my dearly beloved son: perhaps, having seen him, they will change.
14	And the farmers having seen him, reasoned to themselves, saying, This is the heir: come, let us kill him, that the inheritance be ours.
15	And having cast him without the vineyard, they killed. What therefore will the lord of the vineyard do to them?
16	He shall come and destroy these farmers, and give the vineyard to others. And having heard, they said, It may not be.
17	And having looked upon them, he said, What then is this written, The stone which the builders disapproved of, this has been for the head of the corner?
18	Every one having fallen upon that stone shall be crushed, and upon whomsoever it should fall, it shall winnow him.
19	And the chief priests and scribes sought to lay hands upon him in the same hour; and they feared the people: for they knew he spake this parable against them.
20	And having observed narrowly, they sent liers-in-wait, feigning themselves to be just, that they might seize upon his word, to deliver him to the beginning and authority of the leader.
21	And they asked him, saying. Teacher, we know that thou sayest and teachest rightly, and thou receivest not the face, but teachest in truth the way of God:
22	Is it lawful for us to give tribute to Caesar, or not.
23	And having perceived their craft, he said to them, Why tempt ye me?
24	Show me drachma. Whose image and inscription has it? And having answered they said, Caesar’s.
25	And he said to them, Return therefore to Caesar, Caesar’s things, and to God the things of God.
26	And they were not able to seize upon his word before the people: and having wondered at his answer, they were silent.
27	And certain of the Sadducees having approached, speaking against there being a rising up, asked him,
28	Saying, Teacher, Moses wrote to us, If any one’s brother die having a wife, and he die without children, that his brother should take the wife, and raise up seed to his brother.
29	Therefore were there seven brethren: and the first having taken a wife, died without children.
30	And the second took the wife, and he died without children.
31	And the third took her; and likewise also the seven: and they left no children, and died.
32	And after all died the woman also.
33	Then in the rising up, whose wife of them is she for seven had her a wife.
34	And Jesus having answered, said to them, The sons of this life marry, and are given in marriage.
35	And they having been deemed worthy to obtain that life, and the rising up of the dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage:
36	For neither can they die any more: for they are like to messengers; and are sons of God, being the sons of the rising up.
37	And that the dead are raised, Moses made known at the bramble, when he calls the Lord, God of Abraham, God of Isaac, and God of Jacob.
38	And he is not God of the dead, but of the living: for all live to him.
39	And certain of the scribes having answered, said, Teacher, thou speakest well.
40	And they dared no more to ask him anything.
41	And he said to them, how say they Christ to be son of David?
42	And David himself says in the book of Psalms, the Lord said to my Lord, Sit thou from my right hand,
43	Even till I set thine enemies the footstool of thy feet.
44	David therefore calls him Lord, and how is be his son?
45	And all the people hearing, he said to his disciples,
46	Hold from the scribes, wishing to walk about in robes, and loving greetings in the markets, and precedencies in assemblies, and the first places at tables at suppers;
47	Who devour widows’ houses, and for a pretence pray at great length; these shall receive more abundant judgment.