1	And having looked up, he saw the rich casting their gifts into the royal treasury.
2	And he also saw a certain poor widow casting there two small coins.
3	And he said, Truly I say to you, that this poor widow has cast in more than all:
4	For all they, of that abounding to them, have cast in to the gifts of God: and she from her want cast in all the living which she had.
5	And certain speaking of the temple, that it has been arranged with beautiful stones and decorations, he said,
6	These which ye see, the days shall come, in which stone shall not be left upon stone, which shall not be loosened.
7	And they asked him, saying, Teacher, when therefore shall these be and what the sign when these should be about to be.
8	And he said, See ye, be not deceived: for many shall come in my name, saying, That I am; and the time has drawn near: therefore go not after them.
9	And when ye hear of wars and tumults, be not terrified: for these must first be; but the end not immediately.
10	Then said he to them, Nation shall be raised up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom:
11	And great earthquakes in places, and famines, and scourges shall be; and terrific objects and great signs shall be from heaven.
12	And before all these shall they cast their hands upon you, and drive out, delivering to assemblies, and prisons, being brought before kings and leaders for my name’s sake.
13	And it shall turn out to you for a testimony.
14	Set therefore in your hearts, not to practise beforehand to justify yourselves:
15	For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which all they opposed to you shall not be able to contradict nor withstand.
16	And ye shall also be delivered up by parents, and brethren, and kinsmen, and friends; and they shall put of you to death.
17	And ye shall be hated by all for my name’s sake.
18	And there shall not a hair of your head perish.
19	In your patience possess ye your souls.
20	And when ye see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its devastation has drawn near.
21	Then let those in Judea flee to the mountain; and those in the midst of her withdraw; and let those in the countries not go into her.
22	For these are the days of vengeance, that all things having been written, should be completed.
23	And woe to them having in the womb, and to them giving suck, in those days! for there shall be great necessity upon the land, and anger upon this people.
24	And they shall fall by the mouth of the sword, and they shall be made captives in all nations: and Jerusalem shall be trodden down by all the nations, till the times of the nations should be completed.
25	And signs shall be in the sun, and moon, and stars; and upon earth distress of nations, with perplexity; the sea and commotion resounding.
26	Men losing breath for fear and expectation of things coming on the habitable globe: for the powers of the heavens shall be shaken.
27	And then shall they see the Son of man coming in a cloud with much power and glory.
28	And these things beginning to be, get out of danger, and lift up your heads; for your redemption draws near.
29	And he spake to them a parable; See the fig tree, and all trees;
30	When they should already throw forth, seeing of yourselves ye know that summer is already near.
31	So also ye, when ye see these being, know that the kingdom of God is near.
32	Truly I say to you, That this generation should not pass away, even till all things should be.
33	Heaven and earth shall pass away: and my words shall not pass away.
34	And attend to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be loaded with dizziness, caused by excess, and drunkenness, and cares of life, and that day come upon you unexpectedly.
35	For as a snare shall it come upon all remaining upon the face of all, the earth.
36	Watch therefore, in all time praying, that ye be deemed worthy to escape all these about to be, and to stand before the Son of man.
37	And the days he was teaching in the temple; and the nights, coming out, he lodged in the mount called of Olives.
38	And all the people arose early in the morning to him in the temple, to hear him.