1	And the festival of unleavened drew near, called the Pascha.
2	And the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him; for they feared the people.
3	And Satan came into Judas called Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve.
4	And having departed, he conversed with the chief priests and the generals, how he might deliver him to them.
5	And they rejoiced, and agreed to give him silver.
6	And he promised, and sought an opportunity to deliver him to them apart from the crowd.
7	And the day of unleavened came, in which must be sacrificed the pascha.
8	And he sent Peter and John, saying, Having gone, prepare ye for us the pascha, that we might eat.
9	And they said to him, Where wilt thou that we should prepare?
10	And he said to them, Behold, you having come to the city, there shall a man meet you, bearing an earthen vessel of water; follow ye him to the house where he goes in.
11	And ye shall say to the master of the house, The Teacher says to thee, Where is the room where I should eat the pascha with my disciples?
12	And he shall shew you a great upper room spread: there prepare ye.
13	And having departed, they found as he said to them; and they prepared the pascha.
14	And when it was the hour, he reclined, and the twelve sent with him.
15	And he said to them, With eager desire have I desired to eat this pascha with you before I suffer:
16	For I say to you, no more should I eat of it, till when it should be completed in the kingdom of God.
17	Having taken the cup, and returned thanks, he said, Take this, and divide among yourselves:
18	For I say to you, that I drink not of the fruit of the vine, till when the kingdom of God comes.
19	Having taken the bread, and returned thanks, he brake, and gave them, saying, This is my body given for you: this do ye for my remembrance.
20	Likewise also the cup after supping, saying, This the cup, the new covenant in my blood, poured out for you:
21	But, behold, the hand of him delivering me up with me at the table.
22	And truly the Son of man goes according to that determined: but woe to that man by whom he is delivered up!
23	And they began to seek together among themselves, which of them it should be that was about to do this thing.
24	And a love of strife was in them, which of them thinks to be the greater.
25	And he said to them, The kings of the nations rule over them; and they exercising power over them are called benefactors.
26	And ye not so: but let the greater with you be as the younger; and he leading, as he serving.
27	For which the greater, he reclining, or he serving? is not he reclining and I am in the midst of you as he serving.
28	And ye are they having remained with me in my temptations.
29	And I set to you, as my Father set to me, a kingdom;
30	That ye might eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and might sit upon thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
31	And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded you, to sift as wheat:
32	And I have supplicated for thee that thy faith fail not: and thou, when having turned back, confirm thy brethren.
33	And he said to him, Lord, with thee am I ready to go, and to prison, and to death.
34	And he said, I say to thee, Peter, the cock shall not utter a sound this day, before thou shalt thrice deny knowing me.
35	And he said to them, When I sent you without purse, and wallet, and shoes, did ye want any thing? And they said, Nothing,
36	Then said he to them, But now, he having a purse, let him take up, and likewise a wallet: and he not having, let him sell his garment, and buy a sword.
37	For I say to you, that this written must yet be finished in me, that, Also was he reckoned with the lawless: for also the things concerning me have an end.
38	And they said, Lord, behold, two swords here. And he said to them, It is enough.
39	And having come out, he went, according to custom, to the mount of Olives; and his disciples followed him.
40	And being at the place, he said to them, Pray ye not to enter into temptation.
41	And he was removed from them about a stone’s cast, and having placed the knees, he prayed,
42	Saying, Father, If thou art willing, turn aside this cup from me: but not my will, but thine, be done.
43	And a messenger was seen to him from heaven, strengthening him.
44	And being in a violent struggle, he prayed more intently: and his sweat was as clots of blood coming down upon the earth.
45	And having risen from prayer, having come to his disciples, he found them sleeping from grief;
46	And he said to them, Why sleep ye? having risen, pray that ye might not enter into temptation.
47	And he yet speaking, Behold a crowd, and he called Judas, one of the twelve, came before them, and drew near to Jesus to kiss him.
48	And Jesus said to him, Judas, deliverest thou up the Son of man with a kiss?
49	And they about him, having seen that, going to be, said to him, Lord, shall we strike with the sword.
50	And a certain one of them struck a servant of the chief priest, and took away his right ear.
51	And Jesus having answered said, Allow ye even to this. And having touched his ear, he healed him.
52	And Jesus said to the chief priests, and generals of the temple, and the elders, having come to him, Have ye come out, as upon a robber, with sword and sticks?
53	I being with you daily in the temple, ye stretched not forth the hands upon me: but this is your hour, and the power of darkness.
54	And having taken, they brought him into the house of the chief priest. And Peter followed him far off.
55	And having kindled a fire in the midst of the hall, and they having sat down together, Peter sat down in the midst of them.
56	And a certain young girl having seen him sitting by the light, and looked intently upon him, said, And this was with him.
57	And he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not.
58	And after a little another having seen him, said, Thou art also of them. And Peter said, Man, I am not.
59	And about the space of one hour a certain other assured himself, saying, of a truth this also was with him: for he is a Galilean.
60	And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And immediately, he yet speaking, the cock uttered a sound.
61	And the Lord having turned, looked upon Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he said to him, That before the cock utters a sound, thou shalt deny me thrice.
62	And Peter having come forth without wept bitterly.
63	And the men holding Jesus mocked him, stripping.
64	And having covered him, they struck his face, and asked him, saying, Prophesy who it is having struck thee.
65	And many other things, blaspheming, they spake against him.
66	And when it was day, the council of elders of the people was gathered together, and the chief priests and scribes, and they brought him to their council,
67	Saying, Art thou Christ? tell us. And he said to them, If I tell you, ye would not believe:
68	And if I ask you, ye would not answer me, or loose me.
69	From now shall the Son of man be sitting from the right hand of the power of God.
70	And they all said, Art thou therefore the Son of God? And he said to them, Ye say that I am.
71	And they said, Why have we yet need of testimony? for we ourselves have heard from his month.