1	Know in the fifteenth year of the supremacy of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being leader of Judea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and Philip his brother being tetrarch of Iturea and the region of Trachonitis, and Lysanias the tetrarch of Abilene,
2	Upon Annas and Caiaphas being chief priests, the word of God was upon John, son of Zacharias in the desert.
3	And he came into all the country round about Jordan, proclaiming the immersion of repentance for remission of sins;
4	As it has been written in the book of the words of Esaias the prophet, saying, A voice of him crying in the desert, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his footpaths straight.
5	Every ravine shall be filled up, and every mount and hill shall be lowered; and the crooked shall be into straightness, and the rough into smooth ways.
6	And all flesh shall see the salvation of God.
7	Then said he to the crowds coming out to be immersed by him, Generation of vipers, who indicated to you to flee from the anger about to come?
8	Do ye therefore fruits worthy of repentance, and begin not to say in yourselves, We have a father Abraham: for I say to you, That God is able to raise children to Abraham of these stones.
9	And also the axe is already laid at the root of the trees: therefore every tree not making good fruit is cut down, and cast into fire.
10	And the crowds asked him, saying, What therefore shall we do?
11	And he having answered, says to them, He having two coats, let him impart to him having none; and he having food, let him do likewise.
12	And publicans came to be immersed, and said to him, Teacher, what shall we do?
13	And he said to them, Do nothing more than that appointed you.
14	And they making war asked him, saying, And what shall do? And he said to them, Shake none violently, neither make slanderous accusation; and be content with your pay.
15	And the people awaiting, and all reasoning in their hearts concerning John, whether he may not be the Christ;
16	John answered to all, saying, I truly immerse you with water; and he stronger than I comes, of whom I am not worthy to loose his shoes’ strings: he shall immerse you with the Holy Spirit and fire:
17	Whose winnowing fan in his hand, and he will thoroughly cleanse his threshing-floor, and gather the wheat into his store; and the chaff he will burn down with inextinguishable fire.
18	And then truly many other things beseeching, he evangelized the people.
19	And Herod the tetrarch, being reproved by him for Herodias his brother Philip’s wife, and for all the evils which Herod did,
20	And he added this to all, and shut up John in prison.
21	And it was in all the people having been immersed, and Jesus having been immersed, and praying, heaven was opened,
22	And the Holy Spirit descended in a bodily form as a dove upon him, and there was a voice from heaven, saying, Thou art my dearly loved Son; in thee I was contented.
23	And Jesus himself was beginning about thirty years, being, as was thought, the son of Joseph, of Eli,
24	Of Matthat, of Levi, of Melchi, of Janna, of Joseph,
25	Of Mattathias, of Amos, of Naum, of Esli, of Naggai,
26	Of Maath, of Mattathias, of Semei, of Joseph, of Juda,
27	Of Joanna, of Rhesa, of Zorobabel, of Salathiel, of Neri,
28	Of Melchi, of Addi, of Cosam, of Elmodam, of Er,
29	Of Jose, of Eliezer, of Jorim, of Matthat, of Levi,
30	Of Simeon, of Juda, of Joseph, of Jonan, of Eliakim,
31	Of Melea, of Menan, of Mattatha, of Nathan, of David,
32	Of Jesse, of Obed, of Booz, of Salmon, of Naasson,
33	Of Aminadab, of Aram, of Esrom, of Phares, of Juda,
34	Of Jacob, of Isaac, of Abraham, of Thara, of Nachor,
35	Of Saruch, of Ragau, of Phalec, of Eber, of Sala,
36	Of Cainan, of Arphaxad, of Sem, of Noe, of Lamech,
37	Of Mathusala, of Enoch, of Jared, of Maleleel, of Cainan,
38	Of Enos, of Seth, of Adam, of God.