1	And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, turned back from Jordan, and was led by the Holy Spirit into the desert,
2	Being tempted forty days by the devil. And he ate nothing in those days: and they having ended, he afterward hungered.
3	And the devil said to him, If thou art the Son of God, say thou to this stone that it might be bread.
4	And Jesus answered to him saying, It has been written, That not by bread alone shall man live, but by every word of God.
5	And the devil, bringing him into a high mountain, shewed him all the kingdoms of the habitable globe in an instant of time.
6	And the devil said to him, I will give thee all this power, and their glory; for to me has it been delivered; and to whom I will I give it.
7	Therefore if thou worship before me, all shall be thine.
8	And having answered him Jesus said, Retire behind me, Satan: for it has been written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.
9	And he brought him to Jerusalem and set him upon the small wing of the temple, and said to him, If thou art the Son of God; cast thyself down from hence:
10	For it has been written, That he shall charge his messengers concerning thee, to watch over thee:
11	And upon hands shall they lift thee up, lest that perhaps thou shouldest strike thy foot against a stone.
12	And Jesus having answered said to him, That it has been said, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.
13	And having ended all the trial, the devil departed from him for a time.
14	And Jesus turned back in the power of the Spirit to Galilee, and a rumor went out concerning him through the whole country round about.
15	And he taught in their assemblies, being honoured of all.
16	And he came to Nazareth where he was brought up, and he went in, as was the custom to him in the day of the sabbaths, into the assembly, and stood up to read.
17	And the book of Esaias the prophet was given to him. And having unfolded the book, he found the place where it was written,
18	The Spirit of the Lord is upon me for which he anointed me to announce good news to the poor; he has sent me to heal the broken in heart, to proclaim a remission to the captives, and a recovery of sight to the blind, to send away with remission the bruised,
19	To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord.
20	And having folded the book and given back to the servant, he sat down. And the eyes of all in the assembly were looking attentively upon him.
21	And he began to say to them, That this day has this writing been filled up in your ears.
22	And all bore him testimony and wondered at the words of grace going out of his mouth: and said, Is not this the son of Joseph
23	And he said to them, Directly will ye say to me this proverb, Physician, cure thyself: what things we have heard done in Capernaum, do also here in thy country.
24	And he said; Truly I say to you, That not any prophet is accepted in his country.
25	And I tell you of a truth, many widows were in the days of Elias in Israel, When heaven was shut up three years and six months, when a great famine Was upon all the land;
26	And to none of them was Elias sent, except to Sarepta, of Sidon, to a widow woman.
27	And many leprous were during Eliseus the prophet in Israel; and none of them was cleansed but Naaman the Syrian.
28	And all in the assembly were filled with wrath, hearing these things,
29	And having risen up, they cast him without the city, and they brought him to the brow of the mount upon which their city was built, to hurt him down.
30	And he having passed through the midst of them, went away.
31	And he came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and he was teaching them on the sabbaths.
32	And they were struck with amazement at his teaching: for his word was with power.
33	And in the assembly was a man having the spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a great voice,
34	Saying, Let alone; what to us and thee, Jesus Nazarene? hast thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art; the Holy of God.
35	And Jesus answered him, saying, Be then silent, and come Out of him. And the demon having thrown him into the midst, came out of him, not having injured him.
36	And amazement was upon all, and they spake to one another, saying, What this word with authority and power he commands unclean spirits, and they come out.
37	And a report went forth concerning him into every place of the country round about.
38	And having risen from the assembly, he went into Simon’s house. And Simon’s mother-in-law was taken with a great fever; and they entreated him for her.
39	And having stood over her, he censured the fever: and it left her: and having risen immediately she served them.
40	And the sun setting, all as many as had sick ones with various diseases brought them to him; and he having put hands upon each one of them, cured them.
41	And demons came out of many, crying, and saying, Thou art Christ the Son of God. And answering he suffered them not to speak, for they knew him to be Christ.
42	And it having been day, having gone forth he went into a deserted place: and the crowds sought him, and came to him, and detained him not to go from them.
43	And he said to them, That also to other cities must I announce the good news, the kingdom of God: because for this have I been sent.
44	And he was proclaiming in the assemblies of Galilee.