1	And it was the crowd pressing close upon him to hear the word of God, and he was standing near the lake of Gennesaret,
2	And he saw two ships standing near the lake: and the fishermen having gone out of them, washed the fishing-nets.
3	And having gone into one of the ships, which was Simon’s, he asked him to sail out a little from land. And having sat down, he taught the crowds out of the ship.
4	And when he ceased speaking, he said to Simon, Sail out into the deep, and slacken your nets for fishing.
5	And Simon having answered, said to him, Commander, wearied for the whole night, we took nothing: but at thy word I will slacken the net.
6	And having done this, they enclosed a great multitude of fishes, and their net broke through;
7	And they nodded to partners, those in the other ship, that having come they should succor them. And they came and filled both ships, so that they were sinking.
8	And Simon Peter fell upon his knees before Jesus, saying, Go out from me; for I am a sinful man, O Lord.
9	For amazement held him, and all those with him, at the fishing of the fishes which they took:
10	And likewise also James and John, Zebedee’s sons, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, Fear not; from now thou shalt be capturing men.
11	And having brought down the ship upon the land, having let go all things, they followed him.
12	And it was in his being in one of the cities, and behold a man full of leprosy: and having seen Jesus, having fallen upon the face, supplicated him, saying, Lord, if thou wouldst, thou canst cleanse me.
13	And having put forth the hand, he touched him, saying, I will: be thou cleansed. And the leprosy departed from him.
14	And he enjoined him to tell none: but having departed, show thyself to the priest, and bring near for thy cleansing as Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.
15	But the more the word passed through concerning him: and many crowds came together to hear, anti to be cured from their weaknesses.
16	And he was retreating into the deserts, and praying.
17	And it was in one of the days, and he was teaching, and the Pharisees and teachers of the law were sitting, who were come out of every town of Galilee, and Judea, and Jerusalem; and the power of the Lord was for healing them.
18	And, behold, men bringing upon a bed a man who was affected with paralysis; and they sought to bring him, and set before him.
19	And not finding how they might bring him in, for the crowd, having ascended upon the house, they put him down through the tiles, with the small couch, in the midst before Jesus.
20	And having seen their faith, he said to him, Man, thy sins are remitted to thee.
21	And the scribes and Pharisees began to reason with themselves, saying, Who is this who speaks blasphemies? Who can remit sins but God alone?
22	And Jesus having known their reflections, having answered, said to them, What do ye reason with yourselves in your hearts?
23	Which is easier, to say, Thy sins are remitted to thee; or to say, Arise and walk?
24	And that ye might know that the Son of man has power upon earth to remit sins, (he said to him affected with paralysis,) I say to thee, Arise, and having taken up thy conch, go into thy house.
25	And immediately having risen before them, having taken up on what he lay, he went away to his house, honouring God.
26	And amazement took them all, and they honoured God, and were filled with fear, saying, That we have seen wonderful things to day.
27	And after these, he went out, and saw a publican, by name Levi, sitting by the custom-house; and he said to him, Follow me.
28	And having left all, having risen, he followed him.
29	And Levi made a great entertainment for him in his house: and there was a great crowd of publicans and others who were sitting down with them.
30	And the scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, Wherefore eat and drink ye with publicans and sinful?
31	And Jesus, having answered, said to them, Those being in good health have no need of a physician; but they being ill.
32	I came not to call the just, but the sinful to repentance.
33	And they said to him, Wherefore do the disciples of John fast frequently, and make prayers, and likewise they of the Pharisees; and they to thee eat and drink.
34	And he said to them, Ye cannot make the sons of the nuptial chamber fast, when the bridegroom is with them.
35	But the days will come also, when the bridegroom shall be carried away from them; then shall they fast in those days.
36	And he also spake to them a parable; That none put a piece of new garment, upon an old garment; and if not so, the new also splits, and the piece from the new agrees not with the old.
37	And none put new wine into old wine-skins; and if not so, the new wine bursts the wine-skins, and it will be poured out, and the wine-skins will perish.
38	But new wine cast into new wine-skins; and both are kept.
39	And none drinking old, quickly desires new, for he says, The old is better.