1	And it was in the second first sabbath, he went through the standing corn; and his disciples pulled out the ears of corn, and ate, crumbling in small pieces with hands.
2	And certain of the Pharisees said to them, Why do ye what is not lawful to do in the sabbaths.
3	And having answered to them, Jesus said, Have ye not read this, which David did when he hungered, and they being with him;
4	How he went into the house of God, and took the loaves of the setting before, and ate, and gave also to those with him; which is not lawful to eat, except for priests alone?
5	And he said to them, The Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath.
6	And it was also in another sabbath, he came into the assembly, and taught: and a man was there, and his right hand was withered.
7	And the scribes and Pharisees observed him narrowly, if he will heal in the sabbath: that they might find accusation against him.
8	And he knew their reflections, and said to the man having the withered hand, Arise, and stand in the midst. And having risen, he stood.
9	Then said Jesus to them, I will ask you; What is lawful in the sabbath; to do good, or to do evil? to save the life, or destroy.
10	And having looked round upon them all, he said to the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he did so: and his hand was restored whole as the other.
11	And they were filled with want of understanding; and they discoursed with one another What they may do to Jesus.
12	And it was in those days, he went out to the mount to pray, and he was passing the whole night in prayer to God.
13	And when it was day, he called to his disciples: and having chosen twelve from them, and he named them, the sent;
14	Simon, (and he named him Peter,) and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew,
15	Matthew and Thomas, James, him of Alpheus, and Simon called Zelotes,
16	Judas, of James, and Judas Iscariot, and he was the traitor.
17	And having come down with them, he stood upon a level place, and a crowd of his disciples, and a great multitude of people from all Judea and Jerusalem, and the maritime country of Tyre and Sidon, they also came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases;
18	And those molested with unclean spirits: and they were cured.
19	And all the crowd sought to touch him; for there came forth power from him, and healed all.
20	And he having lifted up his eyes upon his disciples, said, Happy the poor, for yours is the kingdom of God.
21	Happy the hungering now: for ye shall be satisfied. Happy the weeping now: for ye shall laugh.
22	Happy are ye, when men hate you, and when they separate you, and reproach, and cast out your name as evil, for the Son of man’s sake.
23	Rejoice in that day, and skip: for, behold, your reward much in heaven: for according to these did their fathers to the prophets.
24	But woe to you rich for ye take away your consolation.
25	Woe to you having been filled for ye shall hunger. Woe to you laughing now! for ye shall grieve and weep.
26	Woe to you when all men speak well of you! for according to these did their fathers to the false prophets.
27	But I say to you hearing, Love your enemies; do good to those hating you,
28	Praise those cursing you, and pray for those threatening you.
29	To him striking thee upon the cheek hold also near the other; and from him taking away thy garments, and thou shouldest not retrench thy coat.
30	And to every one asking thee, do thou give; and from him taking away thy things, re-demand not.
31	And as ye wish that men would do to you, and do you to them likewise.
32	And if ye love them loving you, what grace is to you? for also the sinful would love those loving them.
33	And if ye do good to those doing good to you, what grace is to you? for also the sinful do the same.
34	And if ye lend of whom ye hope to receive back, what grace is to you? for also the sinful lend to the sinful, that they might receive back the like things.
35	But love ye your enemies, and do good, and lend, hoping for nothing back; and your reward shall be much, and ye shall be sons of the Highest; for he is kind to the graceless and evil.
36	Be ye therefore compassionate, as also your Father is compassionate.
37	And judge not, and ye should not be judged: condemn not, and ye should not be condemned: loose ye, and ye shall be loosed.
38	Give, and it shall be given you; good measure, yielded, and shaken, and overflowed, shall they give into your bosom: for with the same measure that ye measure, shall it be measured back to you.
39	And he spake to them a parable, Can the blind lead the blind? shall they not both fall into the ditch?
40	For the learner is not above his teacher: and every one set in order shall be as his teacher.
41	And why beholdest thou the dried straw in thy brother’s eye, and perceivest not the beam in thine own eye?
42	Or how Canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, suffer that I cast out the mote in thine eye, thyself not beholding the beam in thine eye? O hypocrite, cast out first the beam from thine own eye, and then shalt thou see through to cast out the mote in thy brother’s eye.
43	For it is not a good tree making decayed fruit; neither a decayed tree making good fruit.
44	For each tree is known by its own fruit. For of thorns they gather not figs, nor of the bramble do they harvest the grape.
45	The good man out of the good treasure of his heart, brings forward the good thing; and the evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart, brings forward the evil thing: for out of the abundance of the heart does his month speak.
46	And why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not what I say?
47	Every one coming to me, and hearing my words, and doing them, I will shew you to whom he is like:
48	He is like to a man building a house, who digged, and deepened, and set the foundation upon the rock: and there having been an overflow, the river dashed against that house, and was not able to move it: for it was founded upon the rock.
49	And he having heard, and not having done, is like a man having built a house upon the earth, without a foundation; against which the river dashed, and immediately it fell; and the breaking of that house was great.