1	And when he completed all his words in the ears of the people, he came to Capernaum.
2	And a certain centurion’s servant being sick, was about to die; which was highly valued by him.
3	And having heard of Jesus, he sent elders of the Jews to him, asking him, that having come, he would save his servant.
4	And they approaching to Jesus, besought him earnestly, saying, That he is worthy to whom he will bestow this:
5	For he loves our nation, and has built us a synagogue.
6	And Jesus went with them. And now he being away not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying to him, Lord, trouble not thyself: for I am not fit that thou shouldest come under my roof;
7	Therefore neither thought I myself worthy to come to thee: but speak in a word, and my servant shall be healed.
8	For I also am a man set under authority, having soldiers under myself, and I say to this, Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he comes: and to my servant, Do this, and he does.
9	And Jesus having heard these, wondered at him, and having turned to the crowd following him, he said, I say to you, Neither have I found so much faith in Israel.
10	And those sent, having turned back to the house, found the servant being sick, restored to health.
11	And it was in continuation he went to a city called Nain; and sufficient of his disciples went with him, and a great crowd.
12	And as he drew near to the gate of the city, behold, he dead was carried out, the only son of his mother, and she a widow; and a sufficient crowd of the city was with her.
13	And having seen her, the Lord felt compassion for her and said to her, Weep not.
14	And having come, he touched the coffin, and they bearing stood. And he said, Young man, I say to thee, arise.
15	And the dead sat up, and began to speak. And he gave him to his mother.
16	And fear took all; and they praised God, saying, That a great prophet has risen up among us; and That God has reviewed his people.
17	And this word went out about him in all Judea, and in all the country round about.
18	And John’s disciples announced to him of all these things.
19	And having called certain two of his disciples, John sent to Jesus, saying, Art thou he coming? or should we expect another?
20	And the men, having approached to him, said, John the Immerser has sent us to thee, saying, Art thou he coming? or should we expect another?
21	And in that same hour he cured many of diseases, and scourges, and evil spirits, and to many blind he conferred the favor to see.
22	And Jesus having answered said to them, Having gone, announce to John what ye saw and heard; for the blind look up, the lame walk, the leprous are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, the poor are announced good news.
23	And happy is he, whoever should not be offended in me.
24	And the messengers of John having departed, he began to say to the crowds concerning John, What went ye forth into the desert to see? A reed shaken by the wind?
25	But what went ye out to see? A man clothed in soft garments? Behold, those in glorious clothing, and being in luxury, are in royal abodes.
26	But what went ye out to see? A prophet? Yea, I say to you, superior to a prophet.
27	This is he of whom it has been written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, who shall prepare thy way before thee.
28	For I say to you, Among the begotten of women none is a greater prophet than John the Immerser; and the less in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he.
29	And all the people having heard, and the publicans, justified God, having been immersed with the immersion of John.
30	And the Pharisees, and they pertaining to the law, rejected the counsel of God against themselves, not immersed by him.
31	And the Lord said, To whom shall I liken the men of this generation? and to whom are they like?
32	They are like children sitting in the market-place, and calling to one another, and saying, We played the flute to you, and ye danced not; we lamented to you, and ye wept not.
33	For John the Immerser came, neither eating bread, nor drinking wine, and ye say, He has a demon.
34	The Son of man came eating and drinking; and ye say, Behold a man, a glutton, and wine-drinker, a friend of publicans and sinful.
35	And wisdom was justified of all her children.
36	And a certain one of the Pharisees asked him that he would eat with him. And having come into the Pharisee’s house, he reclined.
37	And, behold, a woman in the city, who was sinful, knowing that he is reclining at table in the Pharisee’s house, having brought an alabaster box of perfumed oil,
38	And stood at his feet behind, weeping, been to wet his feet with tears, and wiped with the hairs of her head; and she kissed his feet, and anointed with the perfumed oil.
39	And the Pharisee having called him, seeing, said within himself, This, if he were a prophet, had known who and what race of woman which had touched him: for she is sinful.
40	And Jesus having answered, said to him, Simon, I have something to say to thee. And he says, Teacher, speak.
41	Two debtors were to a certain money-lender: one owed five hundred drachmas, and the other fifty.
42	And they not having to pay, he bestowed as a gift upon both. Which of them therefore will love him the more? Say thou.
43	And Simon, having answered, said, I suppose, that to whom he bestowed more favor. And he said to him, Thou hast judged rightly,
44	And having turned to the woman, he said to Simon, Thou seest this woman? I came into thy house, thou gavest me no water for my feet: and she wet my feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head.
45	Thou gavest me no kiss: and she from when I came in left not kissing my feet.
46	Thou anointedst not my head with oil: and she anointed my feet with perfumed oil.
47	For which I say to thee, Her many sins are remitted; for she loved much: and he to whom little is remitted, loves little.
48	And he said to her, Thy sins are remitted.
49	And they reclining together began to say in themselves, Who is this who also remits sins?
50	And he said to the woman, Thy faith has saved thee; go in peace.