1	And having called together his twelve disciples, he gave them power and authority over all demons, and to cure diseases.
2	And he sent them to proclaim the kingdom of God, and heal the sick.
3	And he said to them, Take away nothing for the way, neither rods, nor wallet, nor bread, nor silver; nor to have two coats apiece.
4	And into whatever house ye come in, remain there, and come out thence.
5	And as many as should not receive you, having come out of that city, and shake off the cloud of dust from your feet for testimony against them.
6	And having gone out, they went through the towns, proclaiming the good news, and healing every where.
7	And Herod the tetrarch heard all done by him: and was in perplexity, for it was said by certain, that John had been raised from the dead.
8	And by certain, that Elias has appeared; and by others, that a prophet, one of the ancients, was risen.
9	And Herod said, John I beheaded and who is this, of whom I hear such things? And he sought to see him.
10	And the sent, having returned, recounted to him what they did. And having taken them, he retreated apart in a desert place of the city, called Bethsaida.
11	And the crowds having known, followed him: and having received them, he spake to them, of the kingdom of God, and healed them having need of cure.
12	And the day began to decline: and the twelve having come near, said to him, Loose the crowd, that having departed into the towns round about and the fields, they might rest, and might find provisions; for here are we in a deserted place.
13	And he said to them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, There are no more to us than five loaves and two fishes; except having gone we buy food for all this people.
14	For they were about five thou sand men. And he said to his disciples, Place them reclining by fifty in a place for reposing.
15	And they did so, and they made all recline.
16	And having taken the five loaves and two fishes, having looked up to heaven, be praised them, and brake, and gave to the disciples to set before the crowd.
17	And they all ate, and were satisfied: and that over and above having remained to them was taken up, twelve baskets of fragments.
18	And it was in his being alone praying, his disciples were with him: and he asked them, saying, Whom do the crowds say me to be?
19	And they having answered, said, John the Immerser; and others, Elias; and others, that a certain prophet of the ancients has risen up.
20	And he said to them, And whom say ye me to be? And Peter having answered said, The Christ of God.
21	And he having censured them, enjoined them to tell this to no one;
22	Saying, That the Son of man must suffer many things, and be disapproved of by the more ancient and the chief priests and the scribes, and be slain, and be raised up the third day.
23	And he said to all, If any one wish to come after me, let him deny himself, and lift up his cross daily and let him follow me.
24	For whoever would wish to save his soul shall lose it: and whoever should lose his soul for my sake, the same shall save it.
25	For what is a man profited, having gained the whole world, and having lost himself, or having been damaged?
26	For whoever should be ashamed of me and my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he should come in the glory of himself, and of the Father, and of the holy messengers.
27	And I say to you truly, certain are standing here, who shall not taste of death, till they should see the kingdom of God.
28	And it was after these words about eight days, and having taken Peter and John and James, he went up into the mount to pray.
29	And it was in his praying, the look of his face was another, and his clothing white, shooting forth lightning.
30	And, behold, two men were speaking with him, which were Moses and Elias:
31	Who, having been seen in glory spake of his exit which he was about to complete in Jerusalem.
32	And Peter and they with him were heavy with sleep: and having waked, they saw his glory, and two men standing with him.
33	And it was in their having withdrawn from him, Peter said to Jesus, Ruler, it is good for us to be here: and let us make three tents, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias: not knowing what he says.
34	And he saying these things, there was a cloud, and it overshadowed them: and they were afraid in their going into the cloud.
35	And there was a voice out of the cloud, saying, This is my dearly beloved Son: hear him.
36	And in there having been a voice, Jesus was found alone. And they were silent, and announced nothing to any one in those days, of what they had seen.
37	And it was in the day following, they having come down from the mountain, there met him a great crowd.
38	And, behold, a man from the crowd cried out, saying, Teacher, I implore thee look upon my son: for he is my only born.
39	And, behold, a spirit takes him, and suddenly he cries out; and it tears him with foam, and with difficulty withdraws from him, bruising him.
40	And I implored thy disciples that they cast it out; and they could not.
41	And Jesus having answered said, O faithless and perverted generation, how long shall I be with you, and endure you I Bring hither thy son.
42	And he yet coming near, the demon rent him, and tare him. And Jesus censured the unclean spirit, and healed the child, and gave him back to his father.
43	And all were struck with amazement at the majesty of God. And all wondering at all which he did, Jesus said to his disciples,
44	Put ye these words into your ears: for the Son of man is about to be delivered up into the bands of men.
45	And they knew not this word, and it was hid from them, lest they should understand it: and they feared to ask him concerning this word.
46	And there came up a conference among them, thus, which of them should be the greatest.
47	And Jesus, having seen the reflection of their heart, having taken up a child, set it by himself,
48	And he said to them, Whoever should receive this child in my name receives me: and whoever should receive me, receives him having sent me: for he being less among you all, the same shall be great.
49	And John having answered said, Ruler, we saw a certain one casting out demons in thy name; and we hindered him, because he follows not with us.
50	And Jesus said, Hinder him not: for who is not against us is for us.
51	And it was in the days of his acceptation being completed, and he fixed his face to go into Jerusalem.
52	And he sent messengers before his face: and having gone, they came into a town of Samaritans, in order to prepare for him.
53	And they received him not, for his face was going to Jerusalem.
54	And his disciples James and John having seen, said, O Lord, wilt thou that we should speak fire to come down from heaven, and destroy them, as also did Elias?
55	And having turned he censured them, and said, Ye know not of what sort of spirit ye are.
56	For the Son of man came not to destroy men’s souls, but to save them. And they proceeded into another town:
57	And it was, they going in the way, a certain one said to him, I will follow thee wherever thou shouldest go forth, Lord.
58	And Jesus said to him, Foxes have dens, and fowls of heaven encampments; but the Son of man has not where he might lay down the head.
59	And he said to another, Follow me. And he said, Lord, permit me having gone, first to inter my father.
60	And Jesus said to him, Permit the dead to inter their own dead; and thou, having gone, announce the kingdom of God.
61	And another said, I will follow thee, Lord; and first permit me to take leave of those in my house.
62	And Jesus said to him, No one putting his hand upon the plough, and looking back, is adapted to the kingdom of God.