1	THE WORDs OF the Koheleth, the son of David, king in Jerusalem.
2	Vanity of vanities, saith Koheleth; Vanity of vanities, all is vanity.
3	What profit hath man of all his labour Wherein he laboureth under the sun?
4	One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh; And the earth abideth for ever.
5	The sun also ariseth, And the sun goeth down, And hasteth to his place where he ariseth.
6	The wind goeth toward the south, And turneth about unto the north; It turneth about continually in its circuit, And the wind returneth again to its circuits.
7	All the rivers run into the sea, Yet the sea is not full; Unto the place whither the rivers go, Thither they go again.
8	All things toil to weariness; Man cannot utter it, The eye is not satisfied with seeing, Nor the ear filled with hearing.
9	That which hath been is that which shall be, And that which hath been done is that which shall be done; And there is nothing new under the sun.
10	Is there a thing whereof it is said: ‘See, this is new’?—it hath been already, in the ages which were before us.
11	There is no remembrance of them of former times; neither shall there be any remembrance of them of latter times that are to come, among those that shall come after.
12	I Koheleth have been king over Israel in Jerusalem.
13	And I applied my heart to seek and to search out by wisdom concerning all things that are done under heaven; it is a sore task that God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised therewith.
14	I have seen all the works that are done under the sun; and, behold, all is vanity and a striving after wind.
15	That which is crooked cannot be made straight; And that which is wanting cannot be numbered.
16	I spoke with my own heart, saying: ‘Lo, I have gotten great wisdom, more also than all that were before me over Jerusalem’; yea, my heart hath had great experience of wisdom and knowledge.
17	And I applied my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and folly—I perceived that this also was a striving after wind.
18	For in much wisdom is much vexation; And he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.