1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
2	Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come into the land of your habitations, which I give unto you,
3	and will make an offering by fire unto the LORD, a burnt offering, or a sacrifice, to accomplish a vow, or as a freewill offering, or in your set feasts, to make a sweet savour unto the LORD, of the herd, or of the flock:
4	then shall he that offereth his oblation offer unto the LORD a meal offering of a tenth part of an ephah of fine flour mingled with the fourth part of an hin of oil:
5	and wine for the drink offering, the fourth part of an hin, shalt thou prepare with the burnt offering or for the sacrifice, for each lamb.
6	Or for a ram, thou shalt prepare for a meal offering two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour mingled with the third part of an hin of oil:
7	and for the drink offering thou shalt offer the third part of an hin of wine, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.
8	And when thou preparest a bullock for a burnt offering, or for a sacrifice, to accomplish a vow, or for peace offerings unto the LORD:
9	then shall he offer with the bullock a meal offering of three tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour mingled with half an hin of oil.
10	and thou shalt offer for the drink offering half an hin of wine, for an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.
11	Thus shall it be done for each bullock, or for each ram, or for each of the he-lambs, or of the kids.
12	According to the number that ye shall prepare, so shall ye do to every one according to their number.
13	All that are homeborn shall do these things after this manner, in offering an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.
14	And if a stranger sojourn with you, or whosoever be among you throughout your generations, and will offer an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD; as ye do, so he shall do.
15	For the assembly, there shall be one statute for you, and for the stranger that sojourneth with you, a statute for ever throughout your generations: as ye are, so shall the stranger be before the LORD.
16	One law and one ordinance shall be for you, and for the stranger that sojourneth with you.
17	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
18	Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into the land whither I bring you,
19	then it shall be, that, when ye eat of the bread of the land, ye shall offer up an heave offering unto the LORD.
20	Of the first of your dough ye shall offer up a cake for an heave offering: as ye do the heave offering of the threshing-floor, so shall ye heave it.
21	Of the first of your dough ye shall give unto the LORD an heave offering throughout your generations.
22	And when ye shall err, and not observe all these commandments, which the LORD hath spoken unto Moses,
23	even all that the LORD hath commanded you by the hand of Moses, from the day that the LORD gave commandment, and onward throughout your generations;
24	then it shall be, if it be done unwittingly, without the knowledge of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one young bullock for a burnt offering, for a sweet savour unto the LORD, with the meal offering thereof, and the drink offering thereof, according to the ordinance, and one he-goat for a sin offering.
25	And the priest shall make atonement for all the congregation of the children of Israel, and they shall be forgiven; for it was an error, and they have brought their oblation, an offering made by fire unto the LORD, and their sin offering before the LORD, for their error:
26	and all the congregation of the children of Israel shall be forgiven, and the stranger that sojourneth among them; for in respect of all the people it was done unwittingly.
27	And if one person sin unwittingly, then he shall offer a she-goat of the first year for a sin offering.
28	And the priest shall make atonement for the soul that erreth, when he sinneth unwittingly, before the LORD, to make atonement for him; and he shall be forgiven.
29	Ye shall have one law for him that doeth aught unwittingly, for him that is homeborn among the children of Israel, and for the stranger that sojourneth among them.
30	But the soul that doeth aught with an high hand, whether he be homeborn or a stranger, the same blasphemeth the LORD; and that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
31	Because he hath despised the word of the LORD, and hath broken his commandment; that soul shall utterly be cut off; his iniquity shall be upon him.
32	And while the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man gathering sticks upon the sabbath day.
33	And they that found him gathering sticks brought him unto Moses and Aaron, and unto all the congregation.
34	And they put him in ward, because it had not been declared what should be done to him.
35	And the LORD said unto Moses, The man shall surely be put to death: all the congregation shall stone him with stones without the camp.
36	And all the congregation brought him without the camp, and stoned him with stones, and he died; as the LORD commanded Moses.
37	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
38	Speak unto the children of Israel, and bid them that they make them fringes in the borders of their garments throughout their generations, and that they put upon the fringe of each border a cord of blue:
39	and it shall be unto you for a fringe, that ye may look upon it, and remember all the commandments of the LORD, and do them; and that ye go not about after your own heart and your own eyes, after which ye use to go a whoring:
40	that ye may remember and do all my commandments, and be holy unto your God.
41	I am the LORD your God, which brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am the LORD your God.