1	And as he was departing from the temple, one of his disciples said to him, “Teacher, observe these fine stones and fine structures.”
2	And in response, Jesus said to him: “Do you see all these great buildings? There shall not be left stone upon stone, which is not torn down.”
3	And as he sat at the Mount of Olives, opposite the temple, Peter, and James, and John, and Andrew questioned him privately.
4	“Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign when all these things will begin to be fulfilled?”
5	And Jesus, answering, began to say to them: “See to it that no one leads you astray.
6	For many will come in my name, saying, ‘For I am he,’ and they will lead many astray.
7	But when you will have heard of wars and rumors of wars, you should not be afraid. For these things must be, but the end is not so soon.
8	For nation will rise up against nation, and kingdom over kingdom, and there shall be earthquakes in various places, and famines. These are but the beginning of the sorrows.
9	But see to yourselves. For they will hand you over to councils, and in the synagogues you will be beaten, and you shall stand before governors and kings because of me, as a testimony for them.
10	And the Gospel must first be preached to all nations.
11	And when they have seized you and handed you over, do not consider in advance what to say. But whatever will be given you in that hour, say that. For you will not be speaking, but the Holy Spirit.
12	Then brother will betray brother to death, and the father, a son; and children will rise up against their parents and will bring about their death.
13	And you will be hated by all for the sake of my name. But whoever will have persevered unto the end, the same will be saved.
14	Then, when you have seen the abomination of desolation, standing where it ought not to be, let the reader understand: then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains.
15	And let whoever is on the rooftop not descend to the house, nor enter so as to take anything from the house.
16	And let whoever may be in the field not return to take his garment.
17	But woe to those who are pregnant or nursing in those days.
18	Truly, pray that these things may not happen in winter.
19	For those days shall have such tribulations as have not been since the beginning of the creation that God founded, even until now, and shall not be.
20	And unless the Lord had shortened the days, no flesh would be saved. But, for the sake of the elect, whom he has chosen, he has shortened the days.
21	And then, if anyone will have said to you: ‘Behold, here is the Christ. Behold, in that place.’ Do not believe it.
22	For false Christs and false prophets will rise up, and they will present signs and wonders, so as to lead astray, if it were possible, even the elect.
23	Therefore, you must take heed. Behold, I have foretold all to you.
24	But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give her splendor.
25	And the stars of heaven will be falling down, and the powers that are in heaven will be moved.
26	And then they shall see the Son of man arriving on the clouds, with great power and glory.
27	And then he will send his Angels, and gather together his elect, from the four winds, from the limits of the earth, to the limits of heaven.
28	Now from the fig tree discern a parable. When its branch becomes tender and the foliage has been formed, you know that summer is very near.
29	So also, when you will have seen these things happen, know that it is very near, even at the doors.
30	Amen I say to you, that this lineage shall not pass away, until all these things have happened.
31	Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away.
32	But concerning that day or hour, no one knows, neither the Angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father.
33	Take heed, be vigilant, and pray. For you do not know when the time may be.
34	It is like a man who, setting out on a sojourn, left behind his house, and gave his servants authority over every work, and instructed the doorkeeper to stand watch.
35	Therefore, be vigilant, for you do not know when the lord of the house may arrive: in the evening, or in the middle of the night, or at first light, or in the morning.
36	Otherwise, when he will have arrived unexpectedly, he may find you sleeping.
37	But what I say to you, I say to all: Be vigilant.”