1	And the Pharisees and some of the scribes, arriving from Jerusalem, gathered together before him.
2	And when they had seen certain ones from his disciples eating bread with common hands, that is, with unwashed hands, they disparaged them.
3	For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, do not eat without repeatedly washing their hands, holding to the tradition of the elders.
4	And when returning from the market, unless they wash, they do not eat. And there are many other things which have been handed down to them to observe: the washings of cups, and pitchers, and bronze containers, and beds.
5	And so the Pharisees and the scribes questioned him: “Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but they eat bread with common hands?”
6	But in response, he said to them: “So well did Isaiah prophesy about you hypocrites, just as it has been written: ‘This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me.
7	And in vain do they worship me, teaching the doctrines and precepts of men.’
8	For abandoning the commandment of God, you hold to the tradition of men, to the washing of pitchers and cups. And you do many other things similar to these.”
9	And he said to them: “You effectively nullify the precept of God, so that you may observe your own tradition.
10	For Moses said: ‘Honor your father and your mother,’ and, ‘Whoever will have cursed father or mother, let him die a death.’
11	But you say, ‘If a man will have said to his father or mother: Korban, (which is a gift) whatever is from me will be to your benefit,’
12	then you do not release him to do anything for his father or mother,
13	rescinding the word of God through your tradition, which you have handed down. And you do many other similar things in this way.”
14	And again, calling the crowd to him, he said to them: “Listen to me, all of you, and understand.
15	There is nothing from outside a man which, by entering into him, is able to defile him. But the things which procede from a man, these are what pollute a man.
16	Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear.”
17	And when he had entered into the house, away from the crowd, his disciples questioned him about the parable.
18	And he said to them: “So, are you also without prudence? Do you not understand that everything entering to a man from outside is not able to pollute him?
19	For it does not enter into his heart, but into the gut, and it exits into the sewer, purging all foods.”
20	“But,” he said “the things which go out from a man, these pollute a man.
21	For from within, from the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders,
22	thefts, avarice, wickedness, deceitfulness, homosexuality, an evil eye, blasphemy, self-exaltation, foolishness.
23	All these evils procede from within and pollute a man.”
24	And rising up, he went from there to the area of Tyre and Sidon. And entering into a house, he intended no one to know about it, but he was not able to remain hidden.
25	For a woman whose daughter had an unclean spirit, as soon as she heard about him, entered and fell prostrate at his feet.
26	For the woman was a Gentile, by birth a Syro-Phoenician. And she petitioned him, so that he would cast the demon from her daughter.
27	And he said to her: “First allow the sons to have their fill. For it is not good to take away the bread of the sons and throw it to the dogs.”
28	But she responded by saying to him: “Certainly, Lord. Yet the young dogs also eat, under the table, from the crumbs of the children.”
29	And he said to her, “Because of this saying, go; the demon has gone out of your daughter.”
30	And when she had gone to her house, she found the girl lying on the bed; and the demon had gone away.
31	And again, departing from the borders of Tyre, he went by way of Sidon to the sea of Galilee, through the midst of the area of the Ten Cities.
32	And they brought someone who was deaf and mute to him. And they begged him, so that he would lay his hand upon him.
33	And taking him away from the crowd, he put his fingers into his ears; and spitting, he touched his tongue.
34	And gazing up to heaven, he groaned and said to him: “Ephphatha,” which is, “Be opened.”
35	And immediately his ears were opened, and the impediment of his tongue was released, and he spoke correctly.
36	And he instructed them not to tell anyone. But as much as he instructed them, so much more did they preach about it.
37	And so much more did they wonder, saying: “He has done all things well. He has caused both the deaf to hear and the mute to speak.”