1	Man that is born of a woman Is of few days, and full of trouble.
2	He cometh forth like a flower, and withereth; He fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not.
3	And dost Thou open Thine eyes upon such a one, And bringest me into judgment with Thee?
4	Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? not one.
5	Seeing his days are determined, The number of his months is with Thee, And Thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass;
6	Look away from him, that he may rest, Till he shall accomplish, as a hireling, his day.
7	For there is hope of a tree, If it be cut down, that it will sprout again, And that the tender branch thereof will not cease.
8	Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, And the stock thereof die in the ground;
9	Yet through the scent of water it will bud, And put forth boughs like a plant.
10	But man dieth, and lieth low; Yea, man perisheth, and where is he?
11	As the waters fail from the sea, And the river is drained dry;
12	So man lieth down and riseth not; Till the heavens be no more, they shall not awake, Nor be roused out of their sleep.
13	Oh that Thou wouldest hide me in the nether-world, That Thou wouldest keep me secret, until Thy wrath be past, That Thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me!—
14	If a man die, may he live again? All the days of my service would I wait, till my relief should come—
15	Thou wouldest call, and I would answer Thee; Thou wouldest have a desire to the work of Thy hands.
16	But now Thou numberest my steps, Thou dost not even wait for my sin;
17	My transgression is sealed up in a bag, And Thou heapest up mine iniquity.
18	And surely the mountain falling crumbleth away, And the rock is removed out of its place;
19	The waters wear the stones; The overflowings thereof wash away the dust of the earth; So Thou destroyest the hope of man.
20	Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passeth; Thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away.
21	His sons come to honour, and he knoweth it not; And they are brought low, but he regardeth them not.
22	But his flesh grieveth for him, And his soul mourneth over him.