1	Then Job answered the LORD, and said:
2	I know that Thou canst do every thing, And that no purpose can be withholden from Thee.
3	Who is this that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore have I uttered that which I understood not, Things too wonderful for me, which I knew not.
4	Hear, I beseech Thee, and I will speak; I will demand of Thee, and declare Thou unto me.
5	I had heard of Thee by the hearing of the ear; But now mine eye seeth Thee;
6	Wherefore I abhor my words, and repent, Seeing I am dust and ashes.
7	And it was so, that after the LORD had spoken these words unto Job, the LORD said to Eliphaz the Temanite: ‘My wrath is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends; for ye have not spoken of Me the thing that is right, as My servant Job hath.
8	Now therefore, take unto you seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to My servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt-offering; and My servant Job shall pray for you; for him will I accept, that I do not unto you aught unseemly; for ye have not spoken of Me the thing that is right, as my servant Job hath.’
9	So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went, and did according as the LORD commanded them; and the LORD accepted Job.
10	And the LORD changed the fortune of Job, when he prayed for his friends; and the LORD gave Job twice as much as he had before.
11	Then came there unto him all his brethren, and all his sisters, and all they that had been of his acquaintance before, and did eat bread with him in his house; and they bemoaned him, and comforted him concerning all the evil that the LORD had brought upon him; every man also gave him a piece of money, and every one a ring of gold.
12	So the LORD blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning; and he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she-asses.
13	He had also seven sons and three daughters.
14	And he called the name of the first, Jemimah; and the name of the second, Keziah; and the name of the third, Keren-happuch.
15	And in all the land were no women found so fair as the daughters of Job; and their father gave them inheritance among their brethren.
16	And after this Job lived a hundred and forty years, and saw his sons, and his sons’ sons, even four generations.
17	So Job died, being old and full of days.
Psalm 1:1	HAPPY IS the man that hath not walked in the counsel of the wicked, Nor stood in the way of sinners, Nor sat in the seat of the scornful.
Psalm 1:2	But his delight is in the law of the LORD; And in His law doth he meditate day and night.
Psalm 1:3	And he shall be like a tree planted by streams of water, That bringeth forth its fruit in its season, And whose leaf doth not wither; And in whatsoever he doeth he shall prosper.
Psalm 1:4	Not so the wicked; But they are like the chaff which the wind driveth away.
Psalm 1:5	Therefore the wicked shall not stand in the judgment, Nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous.
Psalm 1:6	For the LORD regardeth the way of the righteous; But the way of the wicked shall perish.
Psalm 2:1	Why are the nations in an uproar? And why do the peoples mutter in vain?
Psalm 2:2	The kings of the earth stand up, And the rulers take counsel together, Against the LORD, and against His anointed:
Psalm 2:3	Let us break their bands asunder, And cast away their cords from us.’
Psalm 2:4	He that sitteth in heaven laugheth, The Lord hath them in derision.
Psalm 2:5	Then will He speak unto them in His wrath, And affright them in His sore displeasure:
Psalm 2:6	Truly it is I that have established My king Upon Zion, My holy mountain.’
Psalm 2:7	I will tell of the decree: The LORD said unto me: ‘Thou art My son, This day have I begotten thee.
Psalm 2:8	Ask of Me, and I will give the nations for thine inheritance, And the ends of the earth for thy possession.
Psalm 2:9	Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron; Thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter’s vessel.’
Psalm 2:10	Now therefore, O ye kings, be wise; Be admonished, ye judges of the earth.
Psalm 2:11	Serve the LORD with fear, And rejoice with trembling.
Psalm 2:12	Do homage in purity, lest He be angry, and ye perish in the way, When suddenly His wrath is kindled. Happy are all they that take refuge in Him.
Psalm 3:1	A Psalm of David, when he fled from Absalom his son. LORD, how many are mine adversaries become! Many are they that rise up against me.
Psalm 3:2	Many there are that say of my soul: ‘There is no salvation for him in God.’ Selah
Psalm 3:3	But thou, O LORD, art a shield about me; My glory, and the lifter up of my head.
Psalm 3:4	With my voice I call unto the LORD, And He answereth me out of His holy mountain. Selah
Psalm 3:5	I lay me down, and I sleep; I awake, for the LORD sustaineth me.
Psalm 3:6	I am not afraid of ten thousands of people, That have set themselves against me round about.
Psalm 3:7	Arise, O LORD; save me, O my God; For Thou hast smitten all mine enemies upon the cheek, Thou hast broken the teeth of the wicked.
Psalm 3:8	Salvation belongeth unto the LORD; Thy blessing be upon Thy people. Selah
Psalm 4:1	For the Leader; with string-music. A Psalm of David. Answer me when I call, O God of my righteousness, Thou who didst set me free when I was in distress; Be gracious unto me, and hear my prayer.
Psalm 4:2	O ye sons of men, how long shall my glory be put to shame, In that ye love vanity, and seek after falsehood? Selah
Psalm 4:3	But know that the LORD hath set apart the godly man as His own; The LORD will hear when I call unto Him.
Psalm 4:4	Tremble, and sin not; Commune with your own heart upon your bed, and be still. Selah
Psalm 4:5	Offer the sacrifices of righteousness, And put your trust in the LORD.
Psalm 4:6	Many there are that say: ‘Oh that we could see some good!’ LORD, lift Thou up the light of Thy countenance upon us.
Psalm 4:7	Thou hast put gladness in my heart, More than when their corn and their wine increase.
Psalm 4:8	In peace will I both lay me down and sleep; For Thou, LORD, makest me dwell alone in safety.
Psalm 5:1	For the Leader; upon the Nehiloth. A Psalm of David. Give ear to my words, O LORD, consider my meditation.
Psalm 5:2	Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King, and my God; For unto Thee do I pray.
Psalm 5:3	O LORD, in the morning shalt Thou hear my voice; In the morning will I order my prayer unto Thee, and will look forward.
Psalm 5:4	For Thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness; Evil shall not sojourn with Thee.
Psalm 5:5	The boasters shall not stand in Thy sight; Thou hatest all workers of iniquity.
Psalm 5:6	Thou destroyest them that speak falsehood; The LORD abhorreth the man of blood and of deceit.
Psalm 5:7	But as for me, in the abundance of Thy lovingkindness will I come into Thy house; I will bow down toward Thy holy temple in the fear of Thee.
Psalm 5:8	O LORD, lead me in Thy righteousness because of them that lie in wait for me; Make Thy way straight before my face.
Psalm 5:9	For there is no sincerity in their mouth; Their inward part is a yawning gulf, Their throat is an open sepulchre; They make smooth their tongue.
Psalm 5:10	Hold them guilty, O God, Let them fall by their own counsels; Cast them down in the multitude of their transgressions; For they have rebelled against Thee.
Psalm 5:11	So shall all those that take refuge in Thee rejoice, They shall ever shout for joy, And Thou shalt shelter them; Let them also that love Thy name exult in Thee.
Psalm 5:12	For Thou dost bless the righteous; O LORD, Thou dost encompass him with favour as with a shield.
Psalm 6:1	For the Leader; with string-music; on the Sheminith. A Psalm of David. O LORD, rebuke me not in Thine anger, Neither chasten me in Thy wrath.
Psalm 6:2	Be gracious unto me, O LORD, for I languish away; Heal me, O LORD, for my bones are affrighted.
Psalm 6:3	My soul also is sore affrighted; And Thou, O LORD, how long?
Psalm 6:4	Return, O LORD, deliver my soul; Save me for Thy mercy’s sake.
Psalm 6:5	For in death there is no remembrance of Thee; In the nether-world who will give Thee thanks?
Psalm 6:6	I am weary with my groaning; Every night make I my bed to swim; I melt away my couch with my tears.
Psalm 6:7	Mine eye is dimmed because of vexation; It waxeth old because of all mine adversaries.
Psalm 6:8	Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity; For the LORD hath heard the voice of my weeping.
Psalm 6:9	The LORD hath heard my supplication; The LORD receiveth my prayer.
Psalm 6:10	All mine enemies shall be ashamed and sore affrighted; They shall turn back, they shall be ashamed suddenly.
Psalm 7:1	Shiggaion of David, which he sang unto the LORD, concerning Cush a Benjamite. O LORD my God, in Thee have I taken refuge; Save me from all them that pursue me, and deliver me;
Psalm 7:2	Lest he tear my soul like a lion, Rending it in pieces, while there is none to deliver.
Psalm 7:3	O LORD my God, if I have done this; If there be iniquity in my hands;
Psalm 7:4	If I have requited him that did evil unto me, Or spoiled mine adversary unto emptiness;
Psalm 7:5	Let the enemy pursue my soul, and overtake it, And tread my life down to the earth; Yea, let him lay my glory in the dust. Selah
Psalm 7:6	Arise, O LORD, in Thine anger, Lift up Thyself in indignation against mine adversaries; Yea, awake for me at the judgment which Thou hast commanded.
Psalm 7:7	And let the congregation of the peoples compass Thee about, And over them return Thou on high.
Psalm 7:8	O LORD, who ministerest judgment to the peoples, Judge me, O LORD, According to my righteousness, and according to mine integrity that is in me.
Psalm 7:9	Oh that a full measure of evil might come upon the wicked, And that Thou wouldest establish the righteous; For the righteous God trieth the heart and reins.
Psalm 7:10	My shield is with God, Who saveth the upright in heart.
Psalm 7:11	God is a righteous judge, Yea, a God that hath indignation every day:
Psalm 7:12	If a man turn not, He will whet His sword, He hath bent His bow, and made it ready;
Psalm 7:13	He hath also prepared for him the weapons of death, Yea, His arrows which He made sharp.
Psalm 7:14	Behold, he travaileth with iniquity; Yea, he conceiveth mischief, and bringeth forth falsehood.
Psalm 7:15	He hath digged a pit, and hollowed it, And is fallen into the ditch which he made.
Psalm 7:16	His mischief shall return upon his own head, And his violence shall come down upon his own pate.
Psalm 7:17	I will give thanks unto the LORD according to His righteousness; And will sing praise to the name of the LORD Most High.
Psalm 8:1	For the Leader; upon the Gittith. A Psalm of David. O LORD, our Lord, How glorious is Thy name in all the earth! Whose majesty is rehearsed above the heavens.
Psalm 8:2	Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast Thou founded strength, Because of Thine adversaries; That Thou mightest still the enemy and the avenger.
Psalm 8:3	When I behold Thy heavens, the work of Thy fingers, The moon and the stars, which Thou hast established;
Psalm 8:4	What is man, that Thou art mindful of him? And the son of man, that Thou thinkest of him?
Psalm 8:5	Yet Thou hast made him but little lower than the angels, And hast crowned him with glory and honour.
Psalm 8:6	Thou hast made him to have dominion over the works of Thy hands; Thou hast put all things under His feet:
Psalm 8:7	Sheep and oxen, all of them, Yea, and the beasts of the field;
Psalm 8:8	The fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea; Whatsoever passeth through the paths of the seas.
Psalm 8:9	O LORD, our Lord, How glorious is Thy name in all the earth!
Psalm 9:1	For the Leader; upon Muthlabben. A Psalm of David. I will give thanks unto the LORD with my whole heart; I will tell of all Thy marvellous works.
Psalm 9:2	I will be glad and exult in Thee; I will sing praise to Thy name, O Most High:
Psalm 9:3	When mine enemies are turned back, They stumble and perish at Thy presence;
Psalm 9:4	For Thou hast maintained my right and my cause; Thou sattest upon the throne as the righteous Judge.
Psalm 9:5	Thou hast rebuked the nations, Thou hast destroyed the wicked, Thou hast blotted out their name for ever and ever.
Psalm 9:6	O thou enemy, the waste places are come to an end for ever; And the cities which thou didst uproot, Their very memorial is perished.
Psalm 9:7	But the LORD is enthroned for ever; He hath established His throne for judgment.
Psalm 9:8	And He will judge the world in righteousness, He will minister judgment to the peoples with equity.
Psalm 9:9	The LORD also will be a high tower for the oppressed, A high tower in times of trouble;
Psalm 9:10	And they that know Thy name will put their trust in Thee; For thou, LORD, hast not forsaken them that seek Thee.
Psalm 9:11	Sing praises to the LORD, who dwelleth in Zion; Declare among the peoples His doings.
Psalm 9:12	For He that avengeth blood hath remembered them; He hath not forgotten the cry of the humble.
Psalm 9:13	Be gracious unto me, O LORD, Behold mine affliction at the hands of them that hate me; Thou that liftest me up from the gates of death;
Psalm 9:14	That I may tell of all Thy praise in the gates of the daughter of Zion, That I may rejoice in Thy salvation.
Psalm 9:15	The nations are sunk down in the pit that they made; In the net which they hid is their own foot taken.
Psalm 9:16	The LORD hath made Himself known, He hath executed judgment, The wicked is snared in the work of his own hands. Higgaion. Selah
Psalm 9:17	The wicked shall return to the nether-world, Even all the nations that forget God.
Psalm 9:18	For the needy shall not alway be forgotten, Nor the expectation of the poor perish for ever.
Psalm 9:19	Arise, O LORD, let not man prevail; Let the nations be judged in Thy sight.
Psalm 9:20	Set terror over them, O LORD; Let the nations know they are but men. Selah
Psalm 10:1	Why standest Thou afar off, O LORD? Why hidest Thou Thyself in times of trouble?
Psalm 10:2	Through the pride of the wicked the poor is hotly pursued, They are taken in the devices that they have imagined.
Psalm 10:3	For the wicked boasteth of his heart’s desire, And the covetous vaunteth himself, though he contemn the LORD.
Psalm 10:4	The wicked, in the pride of his countenance [, saith]: ‘He will not require’; All his thoughts are: ‘There is no God.’
Psalm 10:5	His ways prosper at all times; Thy judgments are far above out of his sight; As for all his adversaries, he puffeth at them.
Psalm 10:6	He saith in his heart: ‘I shall not be moved, I who to all generations shall not be in adversity.’
Psalm 10:7	His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and oppression; Under his tongue is mischief and iniquity.
Psalm 10:8	He sitteth in the lurking-places of the villages; In secret places doth he slay the innocent; His eyes are on the watch for the helpless.
Psalm 10:9	He lieth in wait in a secret place as a lion in his lair, He lieth in wait to catch the poor; He doth catch the poor, when he draweth him up in his net.
Psalm 10:10	He croucheth, he boweth down, And the helpless fall into his mighty claws.
Psalm 10:11	He hath said in his heart: ‘God hath forgotten; He hideth His face; He will never see.’
Psalm 10:12	Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up Thy hand; Forget not the humble.
Psalm 10:13	Wherefore doth the wicked contemn God, And say in his heart: ‘Thou wilt not require’?
Psalm 10:14	Thou hast seen; for Thou beholdest trouble and vexation, to requite them with Thy hand; Unto Thee the helpless committeth himself; Thou hast been the helper of the fatherless.
Psalm 10:15	Break Thou the arm of the wicked; And as for the evil man, search out his wickedness, till none be found.
Psalm 10:16	The LORD is King for ever and ever; The nations are perished out of His land.
Psalm 10:17	LORD, Thou hast heard the desire of the humble: Thou wilt direct their heart, Thou wilt cause Thine ear to attend;
Psalm 10:18	To right the fatherless and the oppressed, That man who is of the earth may be terrible no more.
Psalm 11:1	For the Leader. [A Psalm] of David. In the LORD have I taken refuge; How say ye to my soul: ‘Flee thou! to your mountain, ye birds’?
Psalm 11:2	For, lo, the wicked bend the bow, They have made ready their arrow upon the string, That they may shoot in darkness at the upright in heart.
Psalm 11:3	When the foundations are destroyed, What hath the righteous wrought?
Psalm 11:4	The LORD is in His holy temple, The LORD, His throne is in heaven; His eyes behold, His eyelids try, the children of men.
Psalm 11:5	The LORD trieth the righteous; But the wicked and him that loveth violence His soul hateth.
Psalm 11:6	Upon the wicked He will cause to rain coals; Fire and brimstone and burning wind shall be the portion of their cup.
Psalm 11:7	For the LORD is righteous, He loveth righteousness; The upright shall behold His face.
Psalm 12:1	For the Leader; on the Sheminith. A Psalm of David. Help, LORD; for the godly man ceaseth; For the faithful fail from among the children of men.
Psalm 12:2	They speak falsehood every one with his neighbour; With flattering lip, and with a double heart, do they speak.
Psalm 12:3	May the LORD cut off all flattering lips, The tongue that speaketh proud things!
Psalm 12:4	Who have said: ‘Our tongue will we make mighty; Our lips are with us: who is lord over us?’
Psalm 12:5	For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, Now will I arise’, saith the LORD; ‘I will set him in safety at whom they puff.’
Psalm 12:6	The words of the LORD are pure words, As silver tried in a crucible on the earth, refined seven times.
Psalm 12:7	Thou wilt keep them, O LORD; Thou wilt preserve us from this generation for ever.
Psalm 12:8	The wicked walk on every side, When vileness is exalted among the sons of men.
Psalm 13:1	For the Leader. A Psalm of David. How long, O LORD, wilt Thou forget me for ever? How long wilt Thou hide Thy face from me?
Psalm 13:2	How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart by day? How long shall mine enemy be exalted over me?
Psalm 13:3	Behold Thou, and answer me, O LORD my God; Lighten mine eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death;
Psalm 13:4	Lest mine enemy say: ‘I have prevailed against him’; Lest mine adversaries rejoice when I am moved.
Psalm 13:5	But as for me, in Thy mercy do I trust; My heart shall rejoice in Thy salvation.
Psalm 13:6	I will sing unto the LORD, Because He hath dealt bountifully with me.
Psalm 14:1	For the Leader. [A Psalm] of David. The fool hath said in his heart: ‘There is no God’; They have dealt corruptly, they have done abominably; There is none that doeth good.
Psalm 14:2	The LORD looked forth from heaven upon the children of men, To see if there were any man of understanding, that did seek after God.
Psalm 14:3	They are all corrupt, they are together become impure; There is none that doeth good, no, not one.
Psalm 14:4	Shall not all the workers of iniquity know it, Who eat up My people as they eat bread, And call not upon the LORD?’
Psalm 14:5	There are they in great fear; For God is with the righteous generation.
Psalm 14:6	Ye would put to shame the counsel of the poor, But the LORD is his refuge.
Psalm 14:7	Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! When the LORD turneth the captivity of His people, Let Jacob rejoice, let Israel be glad.
Psalm 15:1	A Psalm of David. LORD, who shall sojourn in Thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell upon Thy holy mountain?
Psalm 15:2	He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness, And speaketh truth in his heart;
Psalm 15:3	That hath no slander upon his tongue, Nor doeth evil to his fellow, Nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbour;
Psalm 15:4	In whose eyes a vile person is despised, But he honoureth them that fear the LORD; He that sweareth to his own hurt, and changeth not;
Psalm 15:5	He that putteth not out his money on interest, Nor taketh a bribe against the innocent. He that doeth these things shall never be moved.
Psalm 16:1	Michtam of David. Keep me, O God; for I have taken refuge in Thee.
Psalm 16:2	I have said unto the LORD: ‘Thou art my Lord; I have no good but in Thee’;
Psalm 16:3	As for the holy that are in the earth, They are the excellent in whom is all my delight.
Psalm 16:4	Let the idols of them be multiplied that make suit unto another; Their drink-offerings of blood will I not offer, Nor take their names upon my lips.
Psalm 16:5	O LORD, the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup, Thou maintainest my lot.
Psalm 16:6	The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; Yea, I have a goodly heritage.
Psalm 16:7	I will bless the LORD, who hath given me counsel; Yea, in the night seasons my reins instruct me.
Psalm 16:8	I have set the LORD always before me; Surely He is at my right hand, I shall not be moved.
Psalm 16:9	Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth; my flesh also dwelleth in safety;
Psalm 16:10	For Thou wilt not abandon my soul to the nether-world; Neither wilt Thou suffer Thy godly one to see the pit.
Psalm 16:11	Thou makest me to know the path of life; In Thy presence is fulness of joy, In Thy right hand bliss for evermore.
Psalm 17:1	A Prayer of David. Hear the right, O LORD, attend unto my cry; Give ear unto my prayer from lips without deceit.
Psalm 17:2	Let my judgment come forth from Thy presence; Let Thine eyes behold equity.
Psalm 17:3	Thou hast tried my heart, Thou hast visited it in the night; Thou hast tested me, and Thou findest not That I had a thought which should not pass my mouth.
Psalm 17:4	As for the doings of men, by the word of Thy lips I have kept me from the ways of the violent.
Psalm 17:5	My steps have held fast to Thy paths, My feet have not slipped.
Psalm 17:6	As for me, I call upon Thee, for Thou wilt answer me, O God; Incline Thine ear unto me, hear my speech.
Psalm 17:7	Make passing great Thy mercies, O Thou that savest by Thy right hand From assailants them that take refuge in Thee.
Psalm 17:8	Keep me as the apple of the eye, Hide me in the shadow of Thy wings,
Psalm 17:9	From the wicked that oppress, My deadly enemies, that compass me about.
Psalm 17:10	Their gross heart they have shut tight, With their mouth they speak proudly.
Psalm 17:11	At our every step they have now encompassed us; They set their eyes to cast us down to the earth.
Psalm 17:12	He is like a lion that is eager to tear in pieces, And like a young lion lurking in secret places.
Psalm 17:13	Arise, O LORD, confront him, cast him down; Deliver my soul from the wicked, by Thy sword;
Psalm 17:14	From men, by Thy hand, O LORD, From men of the world, whose portion is in this life, And whose belly Thou fillest with Thy treasure; Who have children in plenty, And leave their abundance to their babes.
Psalm 17:15	As for me, I shall behold Thy face in righteousness; I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with Thy likeness.
Psalm 18:1	For the Leader. [A Psalm] of David the servant of the LORD, who spoke unto the LORD the words of this song in the day that the LORD delivered him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul; And he said: I love thee, O LORD, my strength.
Psalm 18:2	The LORD is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; My God, my rock, in Him I take refuge; My shield, and my horn of salvation, my high tower.
Psalm 18:3	Praised, I cry, is the LORD, And I am saved from mine enemies.
Psalm 18:4	The cords of Death compassed me, And the floods of Belial assailed me.
Psalm 18:5	The cords of Sheol surrounded me; The snares of Death confronted me.
Psalm 18:6	In my distress I called upon the LORD, And cried unto my God; Out of His temple He heard my voice, And my cry came before Him unto His ears.
Psalm 18:7	Then the earth did shake and quake, The foundations also of the mountains did tremble; They were shaken, because He was wroth.
Psalm 18:8	Smoke arose up in His nostrils, And fire out of His mouth did devour; Coals flamed forth from Him.
Psalm 18:9	He bowed the heavens also, and came down; And thick darkness was under His feet.
Psalm 18:10	And He rode upon a cherub, and did fly; Yea, He did swoop down upon the wings of the wind.
Psalm 18:11	He made darkness His hiding-place, His pavilion round about Him; Darkness of waters, thick clouds of the skies.
Psalm 18:12	At the brightness before Him, there passed through His thick clouds Hailstones and coals of fire.
Psalm 18:13	The LORD also thundered in the heavens, And the Most High gave forth His voice; Hailstones and coals of fire.
Psalm 18:14	And He sent out His arrows, and scattered them; And He shot forth lightnings, and discomfited them.
Psalm 18:15	And the channels of waters appeared, And the foundations of the world were laid bare, At Thy rebuke, O LORD, At the blast of the breath of Thy nostrils.
Psalm 18:16	He sent from on high, He took me; He drew me out of many waters.
Psalm 18:17	He delivered me from mine enemy most strong, And from them that hated me, for they were too mighty for me.
Psalm 18:18	They confronted me in the day of my calamity; But the LORD was a stay unto me.
Psalm 18:19	He brought me forth also into a large place; He delivered me, because He delighted in me.
Psalm 18:20	The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness; According to the cleanness of my hands hath He recompensed me.
Psalm 18:21	For I have kept the ways of the LORD, And have not wickedly departed from my God.
Psalm 18:22	For all His ordinances were before me, And I put not away His statutes from me.
Psalm 18:23	And I was single-hearted with Him, And I kept myself from mine iniquity.
Psalm 18:24	Therefore hath the LORD recompensed me according to my righteousness, According to the cleanness of my hands in His eyes.
Psalm 18:25	With the merciful Thou dost show Thyself merciful, With the upright man Thou dost show Thyself upright;
Psalm 18:26	With the pure Thou dost show Thyself pure; And with the crooked Thou dost show Thyself subtle.
Psalm 18:27	For Thou dost save the afflicted people; But the haughty eyes Thou dost humble.
Psalm 18:28	For Thou dost light my lamp; The LORD my God doth lighten my darkness.
Psalm 18:29	For by Thee I run upon a troop; And by my God do I scale a wall.
Psalm 18:30	As for God, His way is perfect; The word of the LORD is tried; He is a shield unto all them that take refuge in Him.
Psalm 18:31	For who is God, save the LORD? And who is a Rock, except our God?
Psalm 18:32	The God that girdeth me with strength, And maketh my way straight;
Psalm 18:33	Who maketh my feet like hinds’, And setteth me upon my high places;
Psalm 18:34	Who traineth my hands for war, So that mine arms do bend a bow of brass.
Psalm 18:35	Thou hast also given me Thy shield of salvation, And Thy right hand hath holden me up; And Thy condescension hath made me great.
Psalm 18:36	Thou hast enlarged my steps under me, And my feet have not slipped.
Psalm 18:37	I have pursued mine enemies, and overtaken them; Neither did I turn back till they were consumed.
Psalm 18:38	I have smitten them through, so that they are not able to rise; They are fallen under my feet.
Psalm 18:39	For Thou hast girded me with strength unto the battle; Thou hast subdued under me those that rose up against me.
Psalm 18:40	Thou hast also made mine enemies turn their backs unto me, And I did cut off them that hate me.
Psalm 18:41	They cried, but there was none to save; Even unto the LORD, but He answered them not.
Psalm 18:42	Then did I beat them small as the dust before the wind; I did cast them out as the mire of the streets.
Psalm 18:43	Thou hast delivered me from the contentions of the people; Thou hast made me the head of the nations; A people whom I have not known serve me.
Psalm 18:44	As soon as they hear of me, they obey me; The sons of the stranger dwindle away before me.
Psalm 18:45	The sons of the stranger fade away, And come trembling out of their close places.
Psalm 18:46	The LORD liveth, and blessed be my Rock; And exalted be the God of my salvation;
Psalm 18:47	Even the God that executeth vengeance for me, And subdueth peoples under me.
Psalm 18:48	He delivereth me from mine enemies; Yea, Thou liftest me up above them that rise up against me; Thou deliverest me from the violent man.
Psalm 18:49	Therefore I will give thanks unto Thee, O LORD, among the nations, And will sing praises unto Thy name.
Psalm 18:50	Great salvation giveth He to His king; And showeth mercy to His anointed, To David and to his seed, for evermore.
Psalm 19:1	For the Leader. A Psalm of David. The heavens declare the glory of God, And the firmament showeth His handiwork;
Psalm 19:2	Day unto day uttereth speech, And night unto night revealeth knowledge;
Psalm 19:3	There is no speech, there are no words, Neither is their voice heard.
Psalm 19:4	Their line is gone out through all the earth, And their words to the end of the world. In them hath He set a tent for the sun,
Psalm 19:5	Which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, And rejoiceth as a strong man to run his course.
Psalm 19:6	His going forth is from the end of the heaven, And his circuit unto the ends of it; And there is nothing hid from the heat thereof.
Psalm 19:7	The law of the LORD is perfect, restoring the soul; The testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple.
Psalm 19:8	The precepts of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart; The commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes.
Psalm 19:9	The fear of the LORD is clean, enduring for ever; The ordinances of the LORD are true, they are righteous altogether;
Psalm 19:10	More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold; Sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb.
Psalm 19:11	Moreover by them is Thy servant warned; In keeping of them there is great reward.
Psalm 19:12	Who can discern his errors? Clear Thou me from hidden faults.
Psalm 19:13	Keep back Thy servant also from presumptuous sins, That they may not have dominion over me; then shall I be faultless, And I shall be clear from great transgression.
Psalm 19:14	Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable before Thee, O LORD, my Rock, and my Redeemer.
Psalm 20:1	For the Leader. A Psalm of David. The LORD answer thee in the day of trouble; The name of the God of Jacob set thee up on high;
Psalm 20:2	Send forth thy help from the sanctuary, And support thee out of Zion;
Psalm 20:3	Receive the memorial of all thy meal-offerings, And accept the fat of thy burnt-sacrifice; Selah
Psalm 20:4	Grant thee according to thine own heart, And fulfil all thy counsel.
Psalm 20:5	We will shout for joy in thy victory, And in the name of our God we will set up our standards; The LORD fulfil all thy petitions.
Psalm 20:6	Now know I that the LORD saveth His anointed; He will answer him from His holy heaven With the mighty acts of His saving right hand.
Psalm 20:7	Some trust in chariots, and some in horses; But we will make mention of the name of the LORD our God.
Psalm 20:8	They are bowed down and fallen; But we are risen, and stand upright.
Psalm 20:9	Save, LORD; Let the King answer us in the day that we call.
Psalm 21:1	For the Leader. A Psalm of David. O LORD, in Thy strength the king rejoiceth; And in Thy salvation how greatly doth he exult!
Psalm 21:2	Thou hast given him his heart’s desire, And the request of his lips Thou hast not withholden. Selah
Psalm 21:3	For Thou meetest him with choicest blessings; Thou settest a crown of fine gold on his head.
Psalm 21:4	He asked life of Thee, Thou gavest it him; Even length of days for ever and ever.
Psalm 21:5	His glory is great through Thy salvation; Honour and majesty dost Thou lay upon him.
Psalm 21:6	For Thou makest him most blessed for ever; Thou makest him glad with joy in Thy presence.
Psalm 21:7	For the king trusteth in the LORD, Yea, in the mercy of the Most High; he shall not be moved.
Psalm 21:8	Thy hand shall be equal to all thine enemies; Thy right hand shall overtake those that hate thee.
Psalm 21:9	Thou shalt make them as a fiery furnace in the time of thine anger; The LORD shall swallow them up in His wrath, And the fire shall devour them.
Psalm 21:10	Their fruit shalt thou destroy from the earth, And their seed from among the children of men.
Psalm 21:11	For they intended evil against thee, They imagined a device, wherewith they shall not prevail.
Psalm 21:12	For thou shalt make them turn their back, Thou shalt make ready with thy bowstrings against the face of them.
Psalm 21:13	Be Thou exalted, O LORD, in Thy strength; So will we sing and praise Thy power.
Psalm 22:1	For the Leader; upon Aijeleth ha-Shahar. A Psalm of David. My God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken me, And art far from my help at the words of my cry?
Psalm 22:2	O my God, I call by day, but Thou answerest not; And at night, and there is no surcease for me.
Psalm 22:3	Yet Thou art holy, O Thou that art enthroned upon the praises of Israel.
Psalm 22:4	In Thee did our fathers trust; They trusted, and Thou didst deliver them.
Psalm 22:5	Unto Thee they cried, and escaped; In Thee did they trust, and were not ashamed.
Psalm 22:6	But I am a worm, and no man; A reproach of men, and despised of the people.
Psalm 22:7	All they that see me laugh me to scorn; They shoot out the lip, they shake the head:
Psalm 22:8	Let him commit himself unto the LORD! let Him rescue him; Let Him deliver him, seeing He delighteth in him.’
Psalm 22:9	For Thou art He that took me out of the womb; Thou madest me trust when I was upon my mother’s breasts.
Psalm 22:10	Upon Thee I have been cast from my birth; Thou art my God from my mother’s womb.
Psalm 22:11	Be not far from me; for trouble is near; For there is none to help.
Psalm 22:12	Many bulls have encompassed me; Strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round.
Psalm 22:13	They open wide their mouth against me, As a ravening and a roaring lion.
Psalm 22:14	I am poured out like water, And all my bones are out of joint; My heart is become like wax; It is melted in mine inmost parts.
Psalm 22:15	My strength is dried up like a potsherd; And my tongue cleaveth to my throat; And Thou layest me in the dust of death.
Psalm 22:16	For dogs have encompassed me; A company of evil-doers have inclosed me; Like a lion, they are at my hands and my feet.
Psalm 22:17	I may count all my bones; They look and gloat over me.
Psalm 22:18	They part my garments among them, And for my vesture do they cast lots.
Psalm 22:19	But Thou, O LORD, be not far off; O Thou my strength, hasten to help me.
Psalm 22:20	Deliver my soul from the sword; Mine only one from the power of the dog.
Psalm 22:21	Save me from the lion’s mouth; Yea, from the horns of the wild-oxen do Thou answer me.
Psalm 22:22	I will declare Thy name unto my brethren; In the midst of the congregation will I praise Thee.
Psalm 22:23	Ye that fear the LORD, praise Him; All ye the seed of Jacob, glorify Him; And stand in awe of Him, all ye the seed of Israel.
Psalm 22:24	For He hath not despised nor abhorred the lowliness of the poor; Neither hath He hid His face from him; But when he cried unto Him, He heard.’
Psalm 22:25	From Thee cometh my praise in the great congregation; I will pay my vows before them that fear Him.
Psalm 22:26	Let the humble eat and be satisfied; Let them praise the LORD that seek after Him; May your heart be quickened for ever!
Psalm 22:27	All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn unto the LORD; And all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before Thee.
Psalm 22:28	For the kingdom is the LORD’S; And He is the ruler over the nations.
Psalm 22:29	All the fat ones of the earth shall eat and worship; All they that go down to the dust shall kneel before Him, Even he that cannot keep his soul alive.
Psalm 22:30	A seed shall serve him; It shall be told of the Lord unto the next generation.
Psalm 22:31	They shall come and shall declare His righteousness Unto a people that shall be born, that He hath done it.
Psalm 23:1	A Psalm of David. The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want.
Psalm 23:2	He maketh me to lie down in green pastures; He leadeth me beside the still waters.
Psalm 23:3	He restoreth my soul; He guideth me in straight paths for His name’s sake.
Psalm 23:4	Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for Thou art with me; Thy rod and Thy staff, they comfort me.
Psalm 23:5	Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies; Thou hast anointed my head with oil; my cup runneth over.
Psalm 23:6	Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life; And I shall dwell in the house of the LORD for ever.
Psalm 24:1	A Psalm of David. The earth is the LORD’S, and the fulness thereof; The world, and they that dwell therein.
Psalm 24:2	For He hath founded it upon the seas, And established it upon the floods.
Psalm 24:3	Who shall ascend into the mountain of the LORD? And who shall stand in His holy place?
Psalm 24:4	He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; Who hath not taken My name in vain, And hath not sworn deceitfully.
Psalm 24:5	He shall receive a blessing from the LORD, And righteousness from the God of his salvation.
Psalm 24:6	Such is the generation of them that seek after Him, That seek Thy face, even Jacob. Selah
Psalm 24:7	Lift up your heads, O ye gates, And be ye lifted up, ye everlasting doors; That the King of glory may come in.
Psalm 24:8	Who is the King of glory?’ ‘The LORD strong and mighty, The LORD mighty in battle.’
Psalm 24:9	Lift up your heads, O ye gates, Yea, lift them up, ye everlasting doors; That the King of glory may come in.
Psalm 24:10	Who then is the King of glory?’ ‘The LORD of hosts; He is the King of glory.’ Selah
Psalm 25:1	[A Psalm] of David. Unto Thee, O LORD, do I lift up my soul.
Psalm 25:2	O my God, in Thee have I trusted, let me not be ashamed; Let not mine enemies triumph over me.
Psalm 25:3	Yea, none that wait for Thee shall be ashamed; They shall be ashamed that deal treacherously without cause.
Psalm 25:4	Show me Thy ways, O LORD; teach me Thy paths.
Psalm 25:5	Guide me in Thy truth, and teach me; For Thou art the God of my salvation; For Thee do I wait all the day.
Psalm 25:6	Remember, O LORD, Thy compassions and Thy mercies; For they have been from of old.
Psalm 25:7	Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions; According to Thy mercy remember Thou me, For Thy goodness’ sake, O LORD.
Psalm 25:8	Good and upright is the LORD; Therefore doth He instruct sinners in the way.
Psalm 25:9	He guideth The humble in justice; And He teacheth the humble His way.
Psalm 25:10	All the paths of the LORD are mercy and truth Unto such as keep His covenant and His testimonies.
Psalm 25:11	For Thy name’s sake, O LORD, Pardon mine iniquity, for it is great.
Psalm 25:12	What man is he that feareth the LORD? Him will He instruct in the way that He should choose.
Psalm 25:13	His soul shall abide in prosperity; And his seed shall inherit the land.
Psalm 25:14	The counsel of the LORD is with them that fear Him; And His covenant, to make them know it.
Psalm 25:15	Mine eyes are ever toward the LORD; For He will bring forth my feet out of the net.
Psalm 25:16	Turn Thee unto me, and be gracious unto me; For I am solitary and afflicted.
Psalm 25:17	The troubles of my heart are enlarged; O bring Thou me out of my distresses.
Psalm 25:18	See mine affliction and my travail; And forgive all my sins.
Psalm 25:19	Consider how many are mine enemies, And the cruel hatred wherewith they hate me.
Psalm 25:20	O keep my soul, and deliver me; Let me not be ashamed, for I have taken refuge in Thee.
Psalm 25:21	Let integrity and uprightness preserve me, Because I wait for Thee.
Psalm 25:22	Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his troubles.
Psalm 26:1	[A Psalm] of David. Judge me, O LORD, for I have walked in mine integrity, And I have trusted in the LORD without wavering.
Psalm 26:2	Examine me, O LORD, and try me; Test my reins and my heart.
Psalm 26:3	For Thy mercy is before mine eyes; And I have walked in Thy truth.
Psalm 26:4	I have not sat with men of falsehood; Neither will I go in with dissemblers.
Psalm 26:5	I hate the gathering of evil doers, And will not sit with the wicked.
Psalm 26:6	I will wash my hands in innocency; So will I compass Thine altar, O LORD,
Psalm 26:7	That I may make the voice of thanksgiving to be heard, And tell of all Thy wondrous works.
Psalm 26:8	LORD, I love the habitation of Thy house, And the place where Thy glory dwelleth.
Psalm 26:9	Gather not my soul with sinners, Nor my life with men of blood;
Psalm 26:10	In whose hands is craftiness, And their right hand is full of bribes.
Psalm 26:11	But as for me, I will walk in mine integrity; Redeem me, and be gracious unto me.
Psalm 26:12	My foot standeth in an even place; In the congregations will I bless the LORD.
Psalm 27:1	[A Psalm] of David. The LORD is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The LORD is the stronghold of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?
Psalm 27:2	When evil-doers came upon me to eat up my flesh, Even mine adversaries and my foes, they stumbled and fell.
Psalm 27:3	Though a host should encamp against me, My heart shall not fear; Though war should rise up against me, Even then will I be confident.
Psalm 27:4	One thing have I asked of the LORD, that will I seek after: That I may dwell in the house of the LORD all the days of my life, To behold the graciousness of the LORD, and to visit early in His temple.
Psalm 27:5	For He concealeth me in His pavilion in the day of evil; He hideth me in the covert of His tent; He lifteth me up upon a rock.
Psalm 27:6	And now shall my head be lifted up above mine enemies round about me; And I will offer in His tabernacle sacrifices with trumpet-sound; I will sing, yea, I will sing praises unto the LORD.
Psalm 27:7	Hear, O LORD, when I call with my voice, And be gracious unto me, and answer me.
Psalm 27:8	In Thy behalf my heart hath said: ‘Seek ye My face’; Thy face, LORD, will I seek.
Psalm 27:9	Hide not Thy face far from me; Put not Thy servant away in anger; Thou hast been my help; Cast me not off, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation.
Psalm 27:10	For though my father and my mother have forsaken me, The LORD will take me up.
Psalm 27:11	Teach me Thy way, O LORD; And lead me in an even path, Because of them that lie in wait for me.
Psalm 27:12	Deliver me not over unto the will of mine adversaries; For false witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out violence.
Psalm 27:13	If I had not believed to look upon the goodness of the LORD In the land of the living!—
Psalm 27:14	Wait on the LORD; Be strong, and let thy heart take courage; Yea, wait thou for the LORD.
Psalm 28:1	[A Psalm] of David. Unto thee, O LORD, do I call; My Rock, be not Thou deaf unto me; Lest, if Thou be silent unto me, I become like them that go down into the pit.
Psalm 28:2	Hear the voice of my supplications, when I cry unto Thee, When I lift up my hands toward Thy holy Sanctuary.
Psalm 28:3	Draw me not away with the wicked, And with the workers of iniquity; Who speak peace with their neighbours, But evil is in their hearts.
Psalm 28:4	Give them according to their deeds, and according to the evil of their endeavours; Give them after the work of their hands; Render to them their desert.
Psalm 28:5	Because they give no heed to the works of the LORD, Nor to the operation of His hands; He will break them down and not build them up.
Psalm 28:6	Blessed be the LORD, Because He hath heard the voice of my supplications.
Psalm 28:7	The LORD is my strength and my shield, In Him hath my heart trusted, And I am helped; Therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth, And with my song will I praise Him.
Psalm 28:8	The LORD is a strength unto them; And He is a stronghold of salvation to His anointed.
Psalm 28:9	Save Thy people, and bless Thine inheritance; And tend them, and carry them for ever.
Psalm 29:1	A Psalm of David. Ascribe unto the LORD, O ye sons of might, Ascribe unto the LORD glory and strength.
Psalm 29:2	Ascribe unto the LORD the glory due unto His name; Worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness.
Psalm 29:3	The voice of the LORD is upon the waters; The God of glory thundereth, Even the LORD upon many waters.
Psalm 29:4	The voice of the LORD is powerful; The voice of the LORD is full of majesty.
Psalm 29:5	The voice of the LORD breaketh the cedars; yea, the LORD breaketh in pieces the cedars of Lebanon.
Psalm 29:6	He maketh them also to skip like a calf; Lebanon and Sirion like a young wild-ox.
Psalm 29:7	The voice of the LORD heweth out flames of fire.
Psalm 29:8	The voice of the LORD shaketh the wilderness; The LORD shaketh the wilderness of Kadesh.
Psalm 29:9	The voice of the LORD maketh the hinds to calve, And strippeth the forests bare; And in His temple all say: ‘Glory.’
Psalm 29:10	The LORD sat enthroned at the flood; Yea, the LORD sitteth as King for ever.
Psalm 29:11	The LORD will give strength unto His people; The LORD will bless his people with peace.
Psalm 30:1	A Psalm; a Song at the Dedication of the House; of David. I will extol thee, O LORD, for Thou hast raised me up, And hast not suffered mine enemies to rejoice over me.
Psalm 30:2	O LORD my God, I cried unto Thee, and Thou didst heal me;
Psalm 30:3	O LORD, Thou broughtest up my soul from the nether-world; Thou didst kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit.
Psalm 30:4	Sing praise unto the LORD, O ye His godly ones, And give thanks to His holy name.
Psalm 30:5	For His anger is but for a moment, His favour is for a life-time; Weeping may tarry for the night, But joy cometh in the morning.
Psalm 30:6	Now I had said in my security: ‘I shall never be moved.’
Psalm 30:7	Thou hadst established, O LORD, in Thy favour my mountain as a stronghold—Thou didst hide Thy face; I was affrighted.
Psalm 30:8	Unto Thee, O LORD, did I call, And unto the LORD I made supplication:
Psalm 30:9	What profit is there in my blood, when I go down to the pit? Shall the dust praise Thee? Shall it declare Thy truth?
Psalm 30:10	Hear, O LORD, and be gracious unto me; LORD, be Thou my helper.’
Psalm 30:11	Thou didst turn for me my mourning into dancing; Thou didst loose my sackcloth, and gird me with gladness;
Psalm 30:12	So that my glory may sing praise to Thee, and not be silent; O LORD my God, I will give thanks unto Thee for ever.
Psalm 31:1	For the Leader. A Psalm of David. In thee, O LORD, have I taken refuge; let me never be ashamed; Deliver me in Thy righteousness.
Psalm 31:2	Incline Thine ear unto me, deliver me speedily; Be Thou to me a rock of refuge, even a fortress of defence, to save me.
Psalm 31:3	For Thou art my rock and my fortress; Therefore for Thy name’s sake lead me and guide me.
Psalm 31:4	Bring me forth out of the net that they have hidden for me; For Thou art my stronghold.
Psalm 31:5	Into Thy hand I commit my spirit; Thou hast redeemed me, O LORD, Thou God of truth.
Psalm 31:6	I hate them that regard lying vanities; But I trust in the LORD.
Psalm 31:7	I will be glad and rejoice in Thy lovingkindness; For Thou hast seen mine affliction, Thou hast taken cognizance of the troubles of my soul,
Psalm 31:8	And Thou hast not given me over into the hand of the enemy; Thou hast set my feet in a broad place.
Psalm 31:9	Be gracious unto me, O LORD, for I am in distress; Mine eye wasteth away with vexation, yea, my soul and my body.
Psalm 31:10	For my life is spent in sorrow, and my years in sighing; My strength faileth because of mine iniquity, and my bones are wasted away.
Psalm 31:11	Because of all mine adversaries I am become a reproach, Yea, unto my neighbours exceedingly, and a dread to mine acquaintance; They that see me without flee from me.
Psalm 31:12	I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind; I am like a useless vessel.
Psalm 31:13	For I have heard the whispering of many, Terror on every side; While they took counsel together against me, They devised to take away my life.
Psalm 31:14	But as for me, I have trusted in Thee, O LORD; I have said: ‘Thou art my God.’
Psalm 31:15	My times are in Thy hand; Deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, and from them that persecute me.
Psalm 31:16	Make Thy face to shine upon Thy servant; Save me in Thy lovingkindness.
Psalm 31:17	O LORD, let me not be ashamed, for I have called upon Thee; Let the wicked be ashamed, let them be put to silence in the nether-world.
Psalm 31:18	Let the lying lips be dumb, Which speak arrogantly against the righteous, With pride and contempt.
Psalm 31:19	Oh how abundant is Thy goodness, which Thou hast laid up for them that fear Thee; Which Thou hast wrought for them that take their refuge in Thee, in the sight of the sons of men!
Psalm 31:20	Thou hidest them in the covert of Thy presence from the plottings of man; Thou concealest them in a pavilion from the strife of tongues.
Psalm 31:21	Blessed be the LORD; For He hath shown me His wondrous lovingkindness in an entrenched city.
Psalm 31:22	As for me, I said in my haste: ‘I am cut off from before Thine eyes’; Nevertheless Thou heardest the voice of my supplications when I cried unto Thee.
Psalm 31:23	O love the LORD, all ye His godly ones; The LORD preserveth the faithful, And plentifully repayeth him that acteth haughtily.
Psalm 31:24	Be strong, and let your heart take courage, All ye that wait for the LORD.
Psalm 32:1	[A Psalm] of David. Maschil. Happy is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is pardoned.
Psalm 32:2	Happy is the man unto whom the LORD counteth not iniquity, And in whose spirit there is no guile.
Psalm 32:3	When I kept silence, my bones wore away Through my groaning all the day long.
Psalm 32:4	For day and night Thy hand was heavy upon me; My sap was turned as in the droughts of summer. Selah
Psalm 32:5	I acknowledged my sin unto Thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid; I said: ‘I will make confession concerning my transgressions unto the LORD’—And Thou, Thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Selah
Psalm 32:6	For this let every one that is godly pray unto Thee in a time when Thou mayest be found; Surely, when the great waters overflow, they will not reach unto him.
Psalm 32:7	Thou art my hiding-place; Thou wilt preserve me from the adversary; With songs of deliverance Thou wilt compass me about. Selah
Psalm 32:8	I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt go; I will give counsel, Mine eye being upon thee.’
Psalm 32:9	Be ye not as the horse, or as the mule, which have no understanding; Whose mouth must be held in with bit and bridle, That they come not near unto thee.
Psalm 32:10	Many are the sorrows of the wicked; But he that trusteth in the LORD, mercy compasseth him about.
Psalm 32:11	Be glad in the LORD, and rejoice, ye righteous; And shout for joy, all ye that are upright in heart.
Psalm 33:1	Rejoice in the LORD, O ye righteous, Praise is comely for the upright.
Psalm 33:2	Give thanks unto the LORD with harp, Sing praises unto Him with the psaltery of ten strings.
Psalm 33:3	Sing unto Him a new song; Play skilfully amid shouts of joy.
Psalm 33:4	For the word of the LORD is upright; And all His work is done in faithfulness.
Psalm 33:5	He loveth righteousness and justice; The earth is full of the lovingkindness of the LORD.
Psalm 33:6	By the word of the LORD were the heavens made; And all the host of them by the breath of His mouth.
Psalm 33:7	He gathereth the waters of the sea together as a heap; He layeth up the deeps in storehouses.
Psalm 33:8	Let all the earth fear the LORD; Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of Him.
Psalm 33:9	For He spoke, and it was; He commanded, and it stood.
Psalm 33:10	The LORD bringeth the counsel of the nations to nought; He maketh the thoughts of the peoples to be of no effect.
Psalm 33:11	The counsel of the LORD standeth for ever, The thoughts of His heart to all generations.
Psalm 33:12	Happy is the nation whose God is the LORD; The people whom He hath chosen for His own inheritance.
Psalm 33:13	The LORD looketh from heaven; He beholdeth all the sons of men;
Psalm 33:14	From the place of His habitation He looketh intently Upon all the inhabitants of the earth;
Psalm 33:15	He that fashioneth the hearts of them all, That considereth all their doings.
Psalm 33:16	A king is not saved by the multitude of a host; A mighty man is not delivered by great strength.
Psalm 33:17	A horse is a vain thing for safety; Neither doth it afford escape by its great strength.
Psalm 33:18	Behold, the eye of the LORD is toward them that fear Him, Toward them that wait for His mercy;
Psalm 33:19	To deliver their soul from death, And to keep them alive in famine.
Psalm 33:20	Our soul hath waited for the LORD; He is our help and our shield.
Psalm 33:21	For in Him doth our heart rejoice, Because we have trusted in His holy name.
Psalm 33:22	Let Thy mercy, O LORD, be upon us, According as we have waited for Thee.
Psalm 34:1	[A Psalm] of David; when he changed his demeanour before Abimelech, who drove him away, and he departed. I will bless the LORD at all times; His praise shall continually be in my mouth.
Psalm 34:2	My soul shall glory in the LORD; The humble shall hear thereof, and be glad.
Psalm 34:3	O magnify the LORD with me, And let us exalt His name together.
Psalm 34:4	I sought the LORD, and He answered me, And delivered me from all my fears.
Psalm 34:5	They looked unto Him, and were radiant; And their faces shall never be abashed.
Psalm 34:6	This poor man cried, and the LORD heard, And saved him out of all his troubles.
Psalm 34:7	The angel of the LORD encampeth round about them that fear Him, And delivereth them.
Psalm 34:8	O consider and see that the LORD is good; Happy is the man that taketh refuge in Him.
Psalm 34:9	O fear the LORD, ye His holy ones; For there is no want to them that fear Him.
Psalm 34:10	The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger; But they that seek the LORD want not any good thing.
Psalm 34:11	Come, ye children, hearken unto me; I will teach you the fear of the LORD.
Psalm 34:12	Who is the man that desireth life, and loveth days, That he may see good therein?
Psalm 34:13	Keep thy tongue from evil, And thy lips from speaking guile.
Psalm 34:14	Depart from evil, and do good; Seek peace, and pursue it.
Psalm 34:15	The eyes of the LORD are toward the righteous, And His ears are open unto their cry.
Psalm 34:16	The face of the LORD is against them that do evil, To cut off the remembrance of them from the earth.
Psalm 34:17	 They cried, and the LORD heard, And delivered them out of all their troubles.
Psalm 34:18	The LORD is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart, And saveth such as are of a contrite spirit.
Psalm 34:19	Many are the ills of the righteous, But the LORD delivereth him out of them all.
Psalm 34:20	He keepeth all his bones; Not one of them is broken.
Psalm 34:21	Evil shall kill the wicked; And they that hate the righteous shall be held guilty.
Psalm 34:22	The LORD redeemeth the soul of His servants; And none of them that take refuge in Him shall be desolate.
Psalm 35:1	[A Psalm] of David. Strive, O LORD, with them that strive with me; Fight against them that fight against me.
Psalm 35:2	Take hold of shield and buckler, And rise up to my help.
Psalm 35:3	Draw out also the spear, and the battle-axe, against them that pursue me; Say unto my soul: ‘I am Thy salvation.’
Psalm 35:4	Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion that seek after my soul; Let them be turned back and be abashed that devise my hurt.
Psalm 35:5	Let them be as chaff before the wind, The angel of the LORD thrusting them.
Psalm 35:6	Let their way be dark and slippery, The angel of the LORD pursuing them.
Psalm 35:7	For without cause have they hid for me the pit, even their net, Without cause have they digged for my soul.
Psalm 35:8	Let destruction come upon him unawares; And let his net that he hath hid catch himself; With destruction let him fall therein.
Psalm 35:9	And my soul shall be joyful in the LORD; It shall rejoice in His salvation.
Psalm 35:10	All my bones shall say: ‘LORD, who is like unto Thee, Who deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for him, Yea, the poor and the needy from him that spoileth him?’
Psalm 35:11	Unrighteous witnesses rise up; They ask me of things that I know not.
Psalm 35:12	They repay me evil for good; Bereavement is come to my soul.
Psalm 35:13	But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth, I afflicted my soul with fasting; And my prayer, may it return into mine own bosom.
Psalm 35:14	I went about as though it had been my friend or my brother; I bowed down mournful, as one that mourneth for his mother.
Psalm 35:15	But when I halt they rejoice, and gather themselves together; The abjects gather themselves together against me, and those whom I know not; They tear me, and cease not;
Psalm 35:16	With the profanest mockeries of backbiting They gnash at me with their teeth.
Psalm 35:17	Lord, how long wilt Thou look on? Rescue my soul from their destructions, Mine only one from the lions.
Psalm 35:18	I will give Thee thanks in the great congregation; I will praise Thee among a numerous people.
Psalm 35:19	Let not them that are wrongfully mine enemies rejoice over me; Neither let them wink with the eye that hate me without a cause.
Psalm 35:20	For they speak not peace; But they devise deceitful matters against them that are quiet in the land.
Psalm 35:21	Yea, they open their mouth wide against me; They say: ‘Aha, aha, our eye hath seen it.’
Psalm 35:22	Thou hast seen, O LORD; keep not silence; O Lord, be not far from me.
Psalm 35:23	Rouse Thee, and awake to my judgment, Even unto my cause, my God and my Lord.
Psalm 35:24	Judge me, O LORD my God, according to Thy righteousness; And let them not rejoice over me.
Psalm 35:25	Let them not say in their heart: ‘Aha, we have our desire’; Let them not say: ‘We have swallowed him up.’
Psalm 35:26	Let them be ashamed and abashed together that rejoice at my hurt; Let them be clothed with shame and confusion that magnify themselves against me.
Psalm 35:27	Let them shout for joy, and be glad, that delight in my righteousness; Yea, let them say continually: ‘Magnified be the LORD, Who delighteth in the peace of His servant.’
Psalm 35:28	And my tongue shall speak of Thy righteousness, And of Thy praise all the day.
Psalm 36:1	For the Leader. [A Psalm] of David the servant of the LORD. Transgression speaketh to the wicked, methinks—There is no fear of God before his eyes.
Psalm 36:2	For it flattereth him in his eyes, Until his iniquity be found, and he be hated.
Psalm 36:3	The words of his mouth are iniquity and deceit; He hath left off to be wise, to do good.
Psalm 36:4	He deviseth iniquity upon his bed; He setteth himself in a way that is not good; He abhorreth not evil.
Psalm 36:5	Thy lovingkindness, O LORD, is in the heavens; Thy faithfulness reacheth unto the skies.
Psalm 36:6	Thy righteousness is like the mighty mountains; Thy judgments are like the great deep; Man and beast Thou preservest, O LORD.
Psalm 36:7	How precious is Thy lovingkindness, O God! And the children of men take refuge in the shadow of Thy wings.
Psalm 36:8	They are abundantly satisfied with the fatness of Thy house; And Thou makest them drink of the river of Thy pleasures.
Psalm 36:9	For with Thee is the fountain of life; In Thy light do we see light.
Psalm 36:10	O continue Thy lovingkindness unto them that know Thee; And Thy righteousness to the upright in heart.
Psalm 36:11	Let not the foot of pride overtake me, And let not the hand of the wicked drive me away.
Psalm 36:12	There are the workers of iniquity fallen; They are thrust down, and are not able to rise.
Psalm 37:1	[A Psalm] of David. Fret not thyself because of evil-doers, Neither be thou envious against them that work unrighteousness.
Psalm 37:2	For they shall soon wither like the grass, And fade as the green herb.
Psalm 37:3	Trust in the LORD, and do good; Dwell in the land, and cherish faithfulness.
Psalm 37:4	So shalt thou delight thyself in the LORD; And He shall give thee the petitions of thy heart.
Psalm 37:5	Commit thy way unto the LORD; Trust also in Him, and He will bring it to pass.
Psalm 37:6	And He will make thy righteousness to go forth as the light, And thy right as the noonday.
Psalm 37:7	Resign thyself unto the LORD, and wait patiently for Him; Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, Because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass.
Psalm 37:8	Cease from anger, and forsake wrath; Fret not thyself, it tendeth only to evil-doing.
Psalm 37:9	For evil-doers shall be cut off; But those that wait for the LORD, they shall inherit the land.
Psalm 37:10	And yet a little while, and the wicked is no more; Yea, thou shalt look well at his place, and he is not.
Psalm 37:11	But the humble shall inherit the land, And delight themselves in the abundance of peace.
Psalm 37:12	The wicked plotteth against the righteous, And gnasheth at him with his teeth.
Psalm 37:13	The Lord doth laugh at him; For He seeth that his day is coming.
Psalm 37:14	The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow; To cast down the poor and needy, To slay such as are upright in the way;
Psalm 37:15	Their sword shall enter into their own heart, And their bows shall be broken.
Psalm 37:16	Better is a little that the righteous hath Than the abundance of many wicked.
Psalm 37:17	For the arms of the wicked shall be broken; But the LORD upholdeth the righteous.
Psalm 37:18	The LORD knoweth the days of them that are wholehearted; And their inheritance shall be for ever.
Psalm 37:19	They shall not be ashamed in the time of evil; And in the days of famine they shall be satisfied.
Psalm 37:20	For the wicked shall perish, And the enemies of the LORD shall be as the fat of lambs—They shall pass away in smoke, they shall pass away.
Psalm 37:21	The wicked borroweth, and payeth not; But the righteous dealeth graciously, and giveth.
Psalm 37:22	For such as are blessed of Him shall inherit the land; And they that are cursed of Him shall be cut off.
Psalm 37:23	It is of the LORD that a man’s goings are established; And He delighted in his way.
Psalm 37:24	Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down; For the LORD upholdeth his hand.
Psalm 37:25	I have been young, and now am old; Yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, Nor his seed begging bread.
Psalm 37:26	All the day long he dealeth graciously, and lendeth; And his seed is blessed.
Psalm 37:27	Depart from evil, and do good; And dwell for evermore.
Psalm 37:28	For the LORD loveth justice, And forsaketh not His saints; They are preserved for ever; But the seed of the wicked shall be cut off.
Psalm 37:29	The righteous shall inherit the land, And dwell therein for ever.
Psalm 37:30	The mouth of the righteous uttereth wisdom, And his tongue speaketh justice.
Psalm 37:31	The law of his God is in his heart; None of his steps slide.
Psalm 37:32	The wicked watcheth the righteous, And seeketh to slay him.
Psalm 37:33	The LORD will not leave him in his hand, Nor suffer him to be condemned when he is judged.
Psalm 37:34	Wait for the LORD, and keep His way, And He will exalt thee to inherit the land; When the wicked are cut off, thou shalt see it.
Psalm 37:35	I have seen the wicked in great power, And spreading himself like a leafy tree in its native soil.
Psalm 37:36	But one passed by, and, lo, he was not; Yea, I sought him, but he could not be found.
Psalm 37:37	Mark the man of integrity, and behold the upright; For there is a future for the man of peace.
Psalm 37:38	But transgressors shall be destroyed together; The future of the wicked shall be cut off.
Psalm 37:39	But the salvation of the righteous is of the LORD; He is their stronghold in the time of trouble.
Psalm 37:40	And the LORD helpeth them, and delivereth them; He delivereth them from the wicked, and saveth them, Because they have taken refuge in Him.
Psalm 38:1	A Psalm of David, to make memorial. O LORD, rebuke me not in Thine anger; Neither chasten me in Thy wrath.
Psalm 38:2	For Thine arrows are gone deep into me, And Thy hand is come down upon me.
Psalm 38:3	There is no soundness in my flesh because of Thine indignation; Neither is there any health in my bones because of my sin.
Psalm 38:4	For mine iniquities are gone over my head; As a heavy burden they are too heavy for me.
Psalm 38:5	My wounds are noisome, they fester, Because of my foolishness.
Psalm 38:6	I am bent and bowed down greatly; I go mourning all the day.
Psalm 38:7	For my loins are filled with burning; And there is no soundness in my flesh.
Psalm 38:8	I am benumbed and sore crushed; I groan by reason of the moaning of my heart.
Psalm 38:9	Lord, all my desire is before Thee; And my sighing is not hid from Thee.
Psalm 38:10	My heart fluttereth, my strength faileth me; As for the light of mine eyes, it also is gone from me.
Psalm 38:11	My friends and my companions stand aloof from my plague; And my kinsmen stand afar off.
Psalm 38:12	They also that seek after my life lay snares for me; And they that seek my hurt speak crafty devices, And utter deceits all the day.
Psalm 38:13	But I am as a deaf man, I hear not; And I am as a dumb man that openeth not his mouth.
Psalm 38:14	Yea, I am become as a man that heareth not, And in whose mouth are no arguments.
Psalm 38:15	For in Thee, O LORD, do I hope; Thou wilt answer, O Lord my God.
Psalm 38:16	For I said: ‘Lest they rejoice over me; When my foot slippeth, they magnify themselves against me.’
Psalm 38:17	For I am ready to halt, And my pain is continually before me.
Psalm 38:18	For I do declare mine iniquity; I am full of care because of my sin.
Psalm 38:19	But mine enemies are strong in health; And they that hate me wrongfully are multiplied.
Psalm 38:20	They also that repay evil for good Are adversaries unto me, because I follow the thing that is good.
Psalm 38:21	Forsake me not, O LORD; O my God, be not far from me.
Psalm 38:22	Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation.
Psalm 39:1	For the Leader, for Jeduthun. A Psalm of David. I said: ‘I will take heed to my ways, That I sin not with my tongue; I will keep a curb upon my mouth, While the wicked is before me.’
Psalm 39:2	I was dumb with silence; I held my peace, had no comfort; And my pain was held in check.
Psalm 39:3	My heart waxed hot within me; While I was musing, the fire kindled; Then spoke I with my tongue:
Psalm 39:4	LORD, make me to know mine end, And the measure of my days, what it is; Let me know how short-lived I am.
Psalm 39:5	Behold, Thou hast made my days as hand-breadths; And mine age is as nothing before Thee; Surely every man at his best estate is altogether vanity. Selah
Psalm 39:6	Surely man walketh as a mere semblance; Surely for vanity they are in turmoil; He heapeth up riches, and knoweth not who shall gather them.
Psalm 39:7	And now, Lord, what wait I for? My hope, it is in Thee.
Psalm 39:8	Deliver me from all my transgressions; Make me not the reproach of the base.
Psalm 39:9	I am dumb, I open not my mouth; Because Thou hast done it.
Psalm 39:10	Remove Thy stroke from off me; I am consumed by the blow of Thy hand.
Psalm 39:11	With rebukes dost Thou chasten man for iniquity, And like a moth Thou makest his beauty to consume away; Surely every man is vanity. Selah
Psalm 39:12	Hear my prayer, O LORD, and give ear unto my cry; Keep not silence at my tears; For I am a stranger with Thee, A sojourner, as all my fathers were.
Psalm 39:13	Look away from me, that I may take comfort, Before I go hence, and be no more.’
Psalm 40:1	For the Leader. A Psalm of David. I waited patiently for the LORD; And He inclined unto me, and heard my cry.
Psalm 40:2	He brought me up also out of the tumultuous pit, out of the miry clay; And He set my feet upon a rock, He established my goings.
Psalm 40:3	And He hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God; Many shall see, and fear, And shall trust in the LORD.
Psalm 40:4	Happy is the man that hath made the LORD his trust, And hath not turned unto the arrogant, nor unto such as fall away treacherously.
Psalm 40:5	Many things hast Thou done, O LORD my God, Even Thy wonderful works, and Thy thoughts toward us; There is none to be compared unto Thee! If I would declare and speak of them, They are more than can be told.
Psalm 40:6	Sacrifice and meal-offering Thou hast no delight in; Mine ears hast Thou opened; Burnt-offering and sin-offering hast Thou not required.
Psalm 40:7	Then said I: ‘Lo, I am come With the roll of a book which is prescribed for me;
Psalm 40:8	I delight to do Thy will, O my God; Yea, Thy law is in my inmost parts.’
Psalm 40:9	I have preached righteousness in the great congregation, Lo, I did not refrain my lips; O LORD, Thou knowest.
Psalm 40:10	I have not hid Thy righteousness within my heart; I have declared Thy faithfulness and Thy salvation; I have not concealed Thy mercy and Thy truth from the great congregation.
Psalm 40:11	Thou, O LORD, wilt not withhold Thy compassions from me; Let Thy mercy and Thy truth continually preserve me.
Psalm 40:12	For innumerable evils have compassed me about, Mine iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up; They are more than the hairs of my head, and my heart hath failed me.
Psalm 40:13	Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me; O LORD, make haste to help me.
Psalm 40:14	Let them be ashamed and abashed together That seek after my soul to sweep it away; Let them be turned backward and brought to confusion That delight in my hurt.
Psalm 40:15	Let them be appalled by reason of their shame That say unto me: ‘Aha, aha.’
Psalm 40:16	Let all those that seek Thee rejoice and be glad in Thee; Let such as love Thy salvation say continually: ‘The LORD be magnified.’
Psalm 40:17	But, as for me, that am poor and needy, The Lord will account it unto me; Thou art my help and my deliverer; O my God, tarry not.
Psalm 41:1	For the Leader. A Psalm of David. Happy is he that considereth the poor; The LORD will deliver him in the day of evil.
Psalm 41:2	The LORD preserve him, and keep him alive, let him be called happy in the land; And deliver not Thou him unto the greed of his enemies.
Psalm 41:3	The LORD support him upon the bed of illness; Mayest Thou turn all his lying down in his sickness.
Psalm 41:4	As for me, I said: ‘O LORD, be gracious unto me; Heal my soul; for I have sinned against Thee.’
Psalm 41:5	Mine enemies speak evil of me: ‘When shall he die, and his name perish?’
Psalm 41:6	And if one come to see me, he speaketh falsehood; His heart gathereth iniquity to itself; When he goeth abroad, he speaketh of it.
Psalm 41:7	All that hate me whisper together against me, Against me do they devise my hurt:
Psalm 41:8	An evil thing cleaveth fast unto him; And now that he lieth, he shall rise up no more.’
Psalm 41:9	Yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, who did eat of my bread, Hath lifted up his heel against me.
Psalm 41:10	But Thou, O LORD, be gracious unto me, and raise me up, That I may requite them.
Psalm 41:11	By this I know that Thou delightest in me, That mine enemy doth not triumph over me.
Psalm 41:12	And as for me, Thou upholdest me because of mine integrity, And settest me before Thy face for ever.
Psalm 41:13	Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, From everlasting and to everlasting. Amen, and Amen.
Psalm 42:1	For the Leader; Maschil of the sons of Korah. As the hart panteth after the water brooks, So panteth my soul after Thee, O God.
Psalm 42:2	My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God: ‘When shall I come and appear before God?’
Psalm 42:3	My tears have been my food day and night, While they say unto me all the day: ‘Where is Thy God?’
Psalm 42:4	These things I remember, and pour out my soul within me, How I passed on with the throng, and led them to the house of God, With the voice of joy and praise, a multitude keeping holyday.
Psalm 42:5	Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why moanest thou within me? Hope thou in God; for I shall yet praise Him For the salvation of His countenance.
Psalm 42:6	O my God, my soul is cast down within me; Therefore do I remember Thee from the land of Jordan, And the Hermons, from the hill Mizar.
Psalm 42:7	Deep calleth unto deep at the voice of Thy cataracts; All Thy waves and Thy billows are gone over me.
Psalm 42:8	By day the LORD will command His lovingkindness, And in the night His song shall be with me, Even a prayer unto the God of my life.
Psalm 42:9	I will say unto God my Rock: ‘Why hast Thou forgotten me? Why go I mourning under the oppression of the enemy?’
Psalm 42:10	As with a crushing in my bones, mine adversaries taunt me; While they say unto me all the day: ‘Where is Thy God?’
Psalm 42:11	Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why moanest thou within me? Hope thou in God; for I shall yet praise Him, The salvation of my countenance, and my God.
Psalm 43:1	Be Thou my judge, O God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation; O deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man.
Psalm 43:2	For Thou art the God of my strength; why hast Thou cast me off? Why go I mourning under the oppression of the enemy?
Psalm 43:3	O send out Thy light and Thy truth; let them lead me; Let them bring me unto Thy holy mountain, and to Thy dwelling-places.
Psalm 43:4	Then will I go unto the altar of God, unto God, my exceeding joy; And praise Thee upon the harp, O God, my God.
Psalm 43:5	Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why moanest thou within me? Hope thou in God; for I shall yet praise Him, The salvation of my countenance, and my God.
Psalm 44:1	For the Leader; [a Psalm] of the sons of Korah. Maschil. O God, we have heard with our ears, our fathers have told us; A work Thou didst in their days, in the days of old.
Psalm 44:2	Thou with Thy hand didst drive out the nations, and didst plant them in; Thou didst break the peoples, and didst spread them abroad.
Psalm 44:3	For not by their own sword did they get the land in possession, Neither did their own arm save them; But Thy right hand, and Thine arm, and the light of Thy countenance, Because Thou wast favourable unto them.
Psalm 44:4	Thou art my King, O God; Command the salvation of Jacob.
Psalm 44:5	Through Thee do we push down our adversaries; Through Thy name do we tread them under that rise up against us.
Psalm 44:6	For I trust not in my bow, Neither can my sword save me.
Psalm 44:7	But Thou hast saved us from our adversaries, And hast put them to shame that hate us.
Psalm 44:8	In God have we gloried all the day, And we will give thanks unto Thy name for ever. Selah
Psalm 44:9	Yet Thou hast cast off, and brought us to confusion; And goest not forth with our hosts.
Psalm 44:10	Thou makest us to turn back from the adversary; And they that hate us spoil at their will.
Psalm 44:11	Thou hast given us like sheep to be eaten; And hast scattered us among the nations.
Psalm 44:12	Thou sellest Thy people for small gain, And hast not set their prices high.
Psalm 44:13	Thou makest us a taunt to our neighbours, A scorn and a derision to them that are round about us.
Psalm 44:14	Thou makest us a byword among the nations, A shaking of the head among the peoples.
Psalm 44:15	All the day is my confusion before me, And the shame of my face hath covered me,
Psalm 44:16	For the voice of him that taunteth and blasphemeth; By reason of the enemy and the revengeful.
Psalm 44:17	All this is come upon us; yet have we not forgotten Thee, Neither have we been false to Thy covenant.
Psalm 44:18	Our heart is not turned back, Neither have our steps declined from Thy path;
Psalm 44:19	Though Thou hast crushed us into a place of jackals, And covered us with the shadow of death.
Psalm 44:20	If we had forgotten the name of our God, Or spread forth our hands to a strange god;
Psalm 44:21	Would not God search this out? For He knoweth the secrets of the heart.
Psalm 44:22	Nay, but for Thy sake are we killed all the day; We are accounted as sheep for the slaughter.
Psalm 44:23	Awake, why sleepest Thou, O Lord? Arouse Thyself, cast not off for ever.
Psalm 44:24	Wherefore hidest Thou Thy face, And forgettest our affliction and our oppression?
Psalm 44:25	For our soul is bowed down to the dust; Our belly cleaveth unto the earth.
Psalm 44:26	Arise for our help, And redeem us for Thy mercy’s sake.
Psalm 45:1	For the Leader; upon Shoshannim; [a Psalm] of the sons of Korah. Maschil. A Song of loves. My heart overfloweth with a goodly matter; I say: ‘My work is concerning a king’; My tongue is the pen of a ready writer.
Psalm 45:2	Thou art fairer than the children of men; Grace is poured upon thy lips; Therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.
Psalm 45:3	Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O mighty one, Thy glory and thy majesty.
Psalm 45:4	And in thy majesty prosper, ride on, In behalf of truth and meekness and righteousness; And let thy right hand teach thee tremendous things.
Psalm 45:5	Thine arrows are sharp—The peoples fall under thee—[They sink] into the heart of the king’s enemies.
Psalm 45:6	Thy throne given of God is for ever and ever; A sceptre of equity is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
Psalm 45:7	Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated wickedness; Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee With the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
Psalm 45:8	Myrrh, and aloes, and cassia are all thy garments; Out of ivory palaces stringed instruments have made thee glad.
Psalm 45:9	Kings’ daughters are among thy favourites; At thy right hand doth stand the queen in gold of Ophir.
Psalm 45:10	Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear; Forget also thine own people, and thy father’s house;
Psalm 45:11	So shall the king desire thy beauty; For he is thy lord; and do homage unto him.
Psalm 45:12	And, O daughter of Tyre, the richest of the people Shall entreat thy favour with a gift.’
Psalm 45:13	All glorious is the king’s daughter within the palace; Her raiment is of chequer work inwrought with gold.
Psalm 45:14	She shall be led unto the king on richly woven stuff; The virgins her companions in her train being brought unto thee.
Psalm 45:15	They shall be led with gladness and rejoicing; They shall enter into the king’s palace.
Psalm 45:16	Instead of thy fathers shall be thy sons, Whom thou shalt make princes in all the land.
Psalm 45:17	I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations; Therefore shall the peoples praise thee for ever and ever.
Psalm 46:1	For the Leader; [a Psalm] of the sons of Korah; upon Alamoth. A Song. God is our refuge and strength, A very present help in trouble.
Psalm 46:2	Therefore will we not fear, though the earth do change, And though the mountains be moved into the heart of the seas;
Psalm 46:3	Though the waters thereof roar and foam, Though the mountains shake at the swelling thereof. Selah
Psalm 46:4	There is a river, the streams whereof make glad the city of God, The holiest dwelling-place of the Most High.
Psalm 46:5	God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved; God shall help her, at the approach of morning.
Psalm 46:6	Nations were in tumult, kingdoms were moved; He uttered His voice, the earth melted.
Psalm 46:7	The LORD of hosts is with us; The God of Jacob is our high tower. Selah
Psalm 46:8	Come, behold the works of the LORD, Who hath made desolations in the earth.
Psalm 46:9	He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth; He breaketh the bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder; He burneth the chariots in the fire.
Psalm 46:10	Let be, and know that I am God; I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth.’
Psalm 46:11	The LORD of hosts is with us; The God of Jacob is our high tower. Selah
Psalm 47:1	For the Leader; a Psalm of the sons of Korah. O clap your hands, all ye peoples; Shout unto God with the voice of triumph.
Psalm 47:2	For the LORD is most high, awful; A great King over all the earth.
Psalm 47:3	He subdueth peoples under us, And nations under our feet.
Psalm 47:4	He chooseth our inheritance for us, The pride of Jacob whom He loveth. Selah
Psalm 47:5	God is gone up amidst shouting, The LORD amidst the sound of the horn.
Psalm 47:6	Sing praises to God, sing praises; Sing praises unto our King, sing praises.
Psalm 47:7	For God is the King of all the earth; Sing ye praises in a skilful song.
Psalm 47:8	God reigneth over the nations; God sitteth upon His holy throne.
Psalm 47:9	The princes of the peoples are gathered together, The people of the God of Abraham; For unto God belong the shields of the earth; He is greatly exalted.
Psalm 48:1	A Song; a Psalm of the sons of Korah. Great is the LORD, and highly to be praised, In the city of our God, His holy mountain,
Psalm 48:2	Fair in situation, the joy of the whole earth; Even mount Zion, the uttermost parts of the north, The city of the great King.
Psalm 48:3	God in her palaces Hath made Himself known for a stronghold.
Psalm 48:4	For, lo, the kings assembled themselves, They came onward together.
Psalm 48:5	They saw, straightway they were amazed; They were affrighted, they hasted away.
Psalm 48:6	Trembling took hold of them there, Pangs, as of a woman in travail.
Psalm 48:7	With the east wind Thou breakest the ships of Tarshish.
Psalm 48:8	As we have heard, so have we seen In the city of the LORD of hosts, in the city of our God—God establish it for ever. Selah
Psalm 48:9	We have thought on Thy lovingkindness, O God, In the midst of Thy temple.
Psalm 48:10	As is Thy name, O God, So is Thy praise unto the ends of the earth; Thy right hand is full of righteousness.
Psalm 48:11	Let mount Zion be glad, Let the daughters of Judah rejoice, Because of Thy judgments.
Psalm 48:12	Walk about Zion, and go round about her; Count the towers thereof.
Psalm 48:13	Mark ye well her ramparts, Traverse her palaces; That ye may tell it to the generation following.
Psalm 48:14	For such is God, our God, for ever and ever; He will guide us eternally.
Psalm 49:1	For the Leader; a Psalm of the sons of Korah. Hear this, all ye peoples; Give ear, all ye inhabitants of the world,
Psalm 49:2	Both low and high, Rich and poor together.
Psalm 49:3	My mouth shall speak wisdom, And the meditation of my heart shall be understanding.
Psalm 49:4	I will incline mine ear to a parable; I will open my dark saying upon the harp.
Psalm 49:5	Wherefore should I fear in the days of evil, When the iniquity of my supplanters compasseth me about,
Psalm 49:6	Of them that trust in their wealth, And boast themselves in the multitude of their riches?
Psalm 49:7	No man can by any means redeem his brother, Nor give to God a ransom for him—
Psalm 49:8	For too costly is the redemption of their soul, And must be let alone for ever—
Psalm 49:9	That he should still live alway, That he should not see the pit.
Psalm 49:10	For he seeth that wise men die, The fool and the brutish together perish, And leave their wealth to others.
Psalm 49:11	Their inward thought is, that their houses shall continue for ever, And their dwelling-places to all generations; They call their lands after their own names.
Psalm 49:12	But man abideth not in honour; He is like the beasts that perish.
Psalm 49:13	This is the way of them that are foolish, And of those who after them approve their sayings. Selah
Psalm 49:14	Like sheep they are appointed for the nether-world; Death shall be their shepherd; And the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; And their form shall be for the nether-world to wear away, That there be no habitation for it.
Psalm 49:15	But God will redeem my soul from the power of the nether-world; For He shall receive me. Selah
Psalm 49:16	Be not thou afraid when one waxeth rich, When the wealth of his house is increased;
Psalm 49:17	For when he dieth he shall carry nothing away; His wealth shall not descend after him.
Psalm 49:18	Though while he lived he blessed his soul: ‘Men will praise thee, when thou shalt do well to thyself’;
Psalm 49:19	It shall go to the generation of his fathers; They shall never see the light.
Psalm 49:20	Man that is in honour understandeth not; He is like the beasts that perish.
Psalm 50:1	A Psalm of Asaph. God, God, the LORD, hath spoken, and called the earth From the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof.
Psalm 50:2	Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined forth.
Psalm 50:3	Our God cometh, and doth not keep silence; A fire devoureth before Him, And round about Him it stormeth mightily.
Psalm 50:4	He calleth to the heavens above, And to the earth, that He may judge His people:
Psalm 50:5	Gather My saints together unto Me; Those that have made a covenant with Me by sacrifice.’
Psalm 50:6	And the heavens declare His righteousness; For God, He is judge. Selah
Psalm 50:7	Hear, O My people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify against thee: God, thy God, am I.
Psalm 50:8	I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices; And thy burnt-offerings are continually before Me.
Psalm 50:9	I will take no bullock out of thy house, Nor he-goats out of thy folds.
Psalm 50:10	For every beast of the forest is Mine, And the cattle upon a thousand hills.
Psalm 50:11	I know all the fowls of the mountains; And the wild beasts of the field are Mine.
Psalm 50:12	If I were hungry, I would not tell thee; For the world is Mine, and the fulness thereof.
Psalm 50:13	Do I eat the flesh of bulls, Or drink the blood of goats?
Psalm 50:14	Offer unto God the sacrifice of thanksgiving; And pay thy vows unto the Most High;
Psalm 50:15	And call upon Me in the day of trouble; I will deliver thee, and thou shalt honour Me.’
Psalm 50:16	But unto the wicked God saith: ‘What hast thou to do to declare My statutes, And that thou hast taken My covenant in thy mouth?
Psalm 50:17	Seeing thou hatest instruction, And castest My words behind thee.
Psalm 50:18	When thou sawest a thief, thou hadst company with him, And with adulterers was thy portion.
Psalm 50:19	Thou hast let loose thy mouth for evil, And thy tongue frameth deceit.
Psalm 50:20	Thou sittest and speakest against thy brother; Thou slanderest thine own mother’s son.
Psalm 50:21	These things hast thou done, and should I have kept silence? Thou hadst thought that I was altogether such a one as thyself; But I will reprove thee, and set the cause before thine eyes.
Psalm 50:22	Now consider this, ye that forget God, Lest I tear in pieces, and there be none to deliver.
Psalm 50:23	Whoso offereth the sacrifice of thanksgiving honoureth Me; And to him that ordereth his way aright Will I show the salvation of God.’
Psalm 51:1	For the Leader. A Psalm of David; when Nathan the prophet came unto him, after he had gone in to Bath-sheba. Be gracious unto me, O God, according to Thy mercy; According to the multitude of Thy compassions blot out my transgressions.
Psalm 51:2	Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, And cleanse me from my sin.
Psalm 51:3	For I know my transgressions; And my sin is ever before me.
Psalm 51:4	Against Thee, Thee only, have I sinned, And done that which is evil in Thy sight; That Thou mayest be justified when Thou speakest, And be in the right when Thou judgest.
Psalm 51:5	Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, And in sin did my mother conceive me.
Psalm 51:6	Behold, Thou desirest truth in the inward parts; Make me, therefore, to know wisdom in mine inmost heart.
Psalm 51:7	Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean; Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.
Psalm 51:8	Make me to hear joy and gladness; That the bones which Thou hast crushed may rejoice.
Psalm 51:9	Hide Thy face from my sins, And blot out all mine iniquities.
Psalm 51:10	Create me a clean heart, O God; And renew a stedfast spirit within me.
Psalm 51:11	Cast me not away from Thy presence; And take not Thy holy spirit from me.
Psalm 51:12	Restore unto me the joy of Thy salvation; And let a willing spirit uphold me.
Psalm 51:13	Then will I teach transgressors Thy ways; And sinners shall return unto Thee.
Psalm 51:14	Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, Thou God of my salvation; So shall my tongue sing aloud of Thy righteousness.
Psalm 51:15	O Lord, open Thou my lips; And my mouth shall declare Thy praise.
Psalm 51:16	For Thou delightest not in sacrifice, else would I give it; Thou hast no pleasure in burnt-offering.
Psalm 51:17	The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit; A broken and a contrite heart, O God, Thou wilt not despise.
Psalm 51:18	Do good in Thy favour unto Zion; Build Thou the walls of Jerusalem.
Psalm 51:19	Then wilt Thou delight in the sacrifices of righteousness, in burnt-offering and whole offering; Then will they offer bullocks upon Thine altar.
Psalm 52:1	For the Leader. Maschil of David; when Doeg the Edomite came and told Saul, and said unto him: ‘David is come to the house of Ahimelech.’ Why boastest thou thyself of evil, O mighty man? The mercy of God endureth continually.
Psalm 52:2	Thy tongue deviseth destruction; Like a sharp razor, working deceitfully.
Psalm 52:3	Thou lovest evil more than good; Falsehood rather than speaking righteousness. Selah
Psalm 52:4	Thou lovest all devouring words, The deceitful tongue.
Psalm 52:5	God will likewise break thee for ever, He will take thee up, and pluck thee out of thy tent, And root thee out of the land of the living. Selah
Psalm 52:6	The righteous also shall see, and fear, And shall laugh at him:
Psalm 52:7	Lo, this is the man that made not God his stronghold; But trusted in the abundance of his riches, And strengthened himself in his wickedness.’
Psalm 52:8	But as for me, I am like a leafy olive-tree in the house of God; I trust in the mercy of God for ever and ever.
Psalm 52:9	I will give Thee thanks for ever, because Thou hast done it; And I will wait for Thy name, for it is good, in the presence of Thy saints.
Psalm 53:1	For the Leader; upon Mahalath. Maschil of David. The fool hath said in his heart: ‘There is no God’; They have dealt corruptly, and have done abominable iniquity; There is none that doeth good.
Psalm 53:2	God looked forth from heaven upon the children of men, To see if there were any man of understanding, that did seek after God.
Psalm 53:3	Every one of them is unclean, they are together become impure; There is none that doeth good, no, not one.
Psalm 53:4	Shall not the workers of iniquity know it, Who eat up My people as they eat bread, And call not upon God?’
Psalm 53:5	There are they in great fear, where no fear was; For God hath scattered the bones of him that encampeth against thee; Thou hast put them to shame, because God hath rejected them.
Psalm 53:6	Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! When God turneth the captivity of His people, Let Jacob rejoice, let Israel be glad.
Psalm 54:1	For the Leader; with string-music. Maschil of David: when the Ziphites came and said to Saul: ‘Doth not David hide himself with us?’ O God, save me by Thy name, And right me by Thy might.
Psalm 54:2	O God, hear my prayer; give ear to the words of my mouth.
Psalm 54:3	For strangers are risen up against me, And violent men have sought after my soul; They have not set God before them. Selah
Psalm 54:4	Behold, God is my helper; The Lord is for me as the upholder of my soul.
Psalm 54:5	He will requite the evil unto them that lie in wait for me; Destroy Thou them in Thy truth.
Psalm 54:6	With a freewill-offering will I sacrifice unto Thee; I will give thanks unto Thy name, O LORD, for it is good.
Psalm 54:7	For He hath delivered me out of all trouble; And mine eye hath gazed upon mine enemies.
Psalm 55:1	For the Leader; with string-music. Maschil of David. Give ear, O God, to my prayer; And hide not Thyself from my supplication.
Psalm 55:2	Attend unto me, and answer me; I am distraught in my complaint, and will moan;
Psalm 55:3	Because of the voice of the enemy, Because of the oppression of the wicked; For they cast mischief upon me, And in anger they persecute me.
Psalm 55:4	My heart doth writhe within me; And the terrors of death are fallen upon me.
Psalm 55:5	Fear and trembling come upon me, And horror hath overwhelmed me.
Psalm 55:6	And I said: ‘Oh that I had wings like a dove! Then would I fly away, and be at rest.
Psalm 55:7	Lo, then would I wander far off, I would lodge in the wilderness. Selah
Psalm 55:8	I would haste me to a shelter From the stormy wind and tempest.’
Psalm 55:9	Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongue; For I have seen violence and strife in the city.
Psalm 55:10	Day and night they go about it upon the walls thereof; Iniquity also and mischief are in the midst of it.
Psalm 55:11	Wickedness is in the midst thereof; Oppression and guile depart not from her broad place.
Psalm 55:12	For it was not an enemy that taunted me, Then I could have borne it; Neither was it mine adversary that did magnify himself against me, Then I would have hid myself from him.
Psalm 55:13	But it was thou, a man mine equal, My companion, and my familiar friend;
Psalm 55:14	We took sweet counsel together, In the house of God we walked with the throng.
Psalm 55:15	May He incite death against them, Let them go down alive into the nether-world; For evil is in their dwelling, and within them.
Psalm 55:16	As for me, I will call upon God; And the LORD shall save me.
Psalm 55:17	Evening, and morning, and at noon, will I complain, and moan; And He hath heard my voice.
Psalm 55:18	He hath redeemed my soul in peace so that none came nigh me; For they were many that strove with me.
Psalm 55:19	God shall hear, and humble them, Even He that is enthroned of old, Selah Such as have no changes, And fear not God.
Psalm 55:20	He hath put forth his hands against them that were at peace with him; He hath profaned his covenant.
Psalm 55:21	Smoother than cream were the speeches of his mouth, But his heart was war; His words were softer than oil, Yet were they keen-edged swords.
Psalm 55:22	Cast thy burden upon the LORD, and He will sustain thee; He will never suffer the righteous to be moved.
Psalm 55:23	But Thou, O God, wilt bring them down into the nethermost pit; Men of blood and deceit shall not live out half their days; But as for me, I will trust in Thee.
Psalm 56:1	For the Leader; upon Jonath-elem-rehokim. [A Psalm] of David; Michtam; when the Philistines took him in Gath. Be gracious unto me, O God, for man would swallow me up; All the day he fighting oppresseth me.
Psalm 56:2	They that lie in wait for me would swallow me up all the day; For they are many that fight against me, O Most High,
Psalm 56:3	In the day that I am afraid, I will put my trust in Thee.
Psalm 56:4	In God—I will praise His word—In God do I trust, I will not be afraid; What can flesh do unto me?
Psalm 56:5	All the day they trouble mine affairs; All their thoughts are against me for evil.
Psalm 56:6	They gather themselves together, they hide themselves, They mark my steps; According as they have waited for my soul.
Psalm 56:7	Because of iniquity cast them out; In anger bring down the peoples, O God.
Psalm 56:8	Thou has counted my wanderings; Put Thou my tears into Thy bottle; Are they not in Thy book?
Psalm 56:9	Then shall mine enemies turn back in the day that I call; This I know, that God is for me.
Psalm 56:10	In God—I will praise His word—In the LORD—I will praise His word—
Psalm 56:11	In God do I trust, I will not be afraid; What can man do unto me?
Psalm 56:12	Thy vows are upon me, O God; I will render thank-offerings unto Thee.
Psalm 56:13	For thou hast delivered my soul from death; Hast Thou not delivered my feet from stumbling? That I may walk before God in the light of the living?
Psalm 57:1	For the Leader; Al-tashheth. [A Psalm] of David; Michtam; when he fled from Saul, in the cave. Be gracious unto me, O God, be gracious unto me, For in Thee hath my soul taken refuge; Yea, in the shadow of Thy wings will I take refuge, Until calamities be overpast.
Psalm 57:2	I will cry unto God Most high; Unto God that accomplisheth it for me.
Psalm 57:3	He will send from heaven, and save me, When he that would swallow me up taunteth, Selah God shall send forth His mercy and His truth.
Psalm 57:4	My soul is among lions, I do lie down among them that are aflame; Even the sons of men, whose teeth are spears and arrows, And their tongue a sharp sword.
Psalm 57:5	Be Thou exalted, O God, above the heavens; Thy glory be above all the earth.
Psalm 57:6	They have prepared a net for my steps, My soul is bowed down; They have digged a pit before me, They are fallen into the midst thereof themselves. Selah
Psalm 57:7	My heart is stedfast, O God, my heart is stedfast; I will sing, yea, I will sing praises.
Psalm 57:8	Awake, my glory; awake, psaltery and harp; I will awake the dawn.
Psalm 57:9	I will give thanks unto Thee, O Lord, among the peoples; I will sing praises unto Thee among the nations.
Psalm 57:10	For Thy mercy is great unto the heavens, And Thy truth unto the skies.
Psalm 57:11	Be Thou exalted, O God, above the heavens; Thy glory be above all the earth.
Psalm 58:1	For the Leader; Al-tashheth. [A Psalm] of David; Michtam. Do ye indeed speak as a righteous company? Do ye judge with equity the sons of men?
Psalm 58:2	Yea, in heart ye work wickedness; Ye weigh out in the earth the violence of your hands.
Psalm 58:3	The wicked are estranged from the womb; The speakers of lies go astray as soon as they are born.
Psalm 58:4	Their venom is like the venom of a serpent; They are like the deaf asp that stoppeth her ear;
Psalm 58:5	Which hearkeneth not to the voice of charmers, Or of the most cunning binder of spells.
Psalm 58:6	Break their teeth, O God, in their mouth; Break out the cheek-teeth of the young lions, O LORD.
Psalm 58:7	Let them melt away as water that runneth apace; When he aimeth his arrows, let them be as though they were cut off.
Psalm 58:8	Let them be as a snail which melteth and passeth away; Like the untimely births of a woman, that have not seen the sun.
Psalm 58:9	Before your pots can feel the thorns, He will sweep it away with a whirlwind, the raw and the burning alike.
Psalm 58:10	The righteous shall rejoice when he seeth the vengeance; He shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked.
Psalm 58:11	And men shall say: ‘Verily there is a reward for the righteous; Verily there is a God that judgeth in the earth.’
Psalm 59:1	For the Leader; Al-tashheth. [A Psalm] of David; Michtam; when Saul sent, and they watched the house to kill him. Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God; Set me on high from them that rise up against me.
Psalm 59:2	Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, And save me from the men of blood.
Psalm 59:3	For, lo, they lie in wait for my soul; The impudent gather themselves together against me; Not for my transgression, nor for my sin, O LORD.
Psalm 59:4	Without my fault, they run and prepare themselves; Awake Thou to help me, and behold.
Psalm 59:5	Thou therefore, O LORD God of hosts, the God of Israel, Arouse Thyself to punish all the nations; Show no mercy to any iniquitous traitors. Selah
Psalm 59:6	They return at evening, they howl like a dog, And go round about the city.
Psalm 59:7	Behold, they belch out with their mouth; Swords are in their lips: ‘For who doth hear?’
Psalm 59:8	But Thou, O LORD, shalt laugh at them; Thou shalt have all the nations in derision.
Psalm 59:9	Because of his strength, I will wait for Thee; For God is my high tower.
Psalm 59:10	The God of my mercy will come to meet me; God will let me gaze upon mine adversaries.
Psalm 59:11	Slay them not, lest my people forget, Make them wander to and fro by Thy power, and bring them down, O Lord our shield.
Psalm 59:12	For the sin of their mouth, and the words of their lips, Let them even be taken in their pride, And for cursing and lying which they speak.
Psalm 59:13	Consume them in wrath, consume them, that they be no more; And let them know that God ruleth in Jacob, Unto the ends of the earth. Selah
Psalm 59:14	And they return at evening, they howl like a dog, And go round about the city;
Psalm 59:15	They wander up and down to devour, And tarry all night if they have not their fill.
Psalm 59:16	But as for me, I will sing of Thy strength; Yea, I will sing aloud of Thy mercy in the morning; For Thou hast been my high tower, And a refuge in the day of my distress.
Psalm 59:17	O my strength, unto Thee will I sing praises; For God is my high tower, the God of my mercy.
Psalm 60:1	For the Leader; upon Shushan Eduth; Michtam of David, to teach; when he strove with Aram-naharaim and with Aram-zobah, and Joab returned, and smote of Edom in the Valley of Salt twelve thousand. O God, Thou hast cast us off, Thou hast broken us down; Thou hast been angry; O restore us.
Psalm 60:2	Thou hast made the land to shake, Thou hast cleft it; Heal the breaches thereof; for it tottereth.
Psalm 60:3	Thou hast made Thy people to see hard things; Thou hast made us to drink the wine of staggering.
Psalm 60:4	Thou hast given a banner to them that fear Thee, That it may be displayed because of the truth. Selah
Psalm 60:5	That Thy beloved may be delivered, Save with Thy right hand, and answer me.
Psalm 60:6	God spoke in His holiness, that I would exult; That I would divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth.
Psalm 60:7	Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the defence of my head; Judah is my sceptre.
Psalm 60:8	Moab is my washpot; Upon Edom do I cast my shoe; Philistia, cry aloud because of me!
Psalm 60:9	Who will bring me into the fortified city? Who will lead me unto Edom?
Psalm 60:10	Hast not Thou, O God, cast us off? And Thou goest not forth, O God, with our hosts.
Psalm 60:11	Give us help against the adversary; For vain is the help of man.
Psalm 60:12	Through God we shall do valiantly; For He it is that will tread down our adversaries.
Psalm 61:1	For the Leader; with string-music. [A Psalm] of David. Hear my cry, O God; Attend unto my prayer.
Psalm 61:2	From the end of the earth will I call unto Thee, when my heart fainteth; Lead me to a rock that is too high for me.
Psalm 61:3	For Thou hast been a refuge for me, A tower of strength in the face of the enemy.
Psalm 61:4	I will dwell in Thy Tent for ever; I will take refuge in the covert of Thy wings. Selah
Psalm 61:5	For Thou, O God, hast heard my vows; Thou hast granted the heritage of those that fear Thy name.
Psalm 61:6	Mayest Thou add days unto the king’s days! May his years be as many generations!
Psalm 61:7	May he be enthroned before God for ever! Appoint mercy and truth, that they may preserve him.
Psalm 61:8	So will I sing praise unto Thy name for ever, That I may daily perform my vows.
Psalm 62:1	For the Leader; for Jeduthun. A Psalm of David. Only for God doth my soul wait in stillness; From Him cometh my salvation.
Psalm 62:2	He only is my rock and my salvation, My high tower, I shall not be greatly moved.
Psalm 62:3	How long will ye set upon a man, That ye may slay him, all of you, As a leaning wall, a tottering fence?
Psalm 62:4	They only devise to thrust him down from his height, delighting in lies; They bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly. Selah
Psalm 62:5	Only for God wait thou in stillness, my soul; For from Him cometh my hope.
Psalm 62:6	He only is my rock and my salvation, My high tower, I shall not be moved.
Psalm 62:7	Upon God resteth my salvation and my glory; The rock of my strength, and my refuge, is in God.
Psalm 62:8	Trust in Him at all times, ye people; Pour out your heart before Him; God is a refuge for us. Selah
Psalm 62:9	Men of low degree are vanity, and men of high degree are a lie; If they be laid in the balances, they are together lighter than vanity.
Psalm 62:10	Trust not in oppression, And put not vain hope in robbery; If riches increase, set not your heart thereon.
Psalm 62:11	God hath spoken once, Twice have I heard this: That strength belongeth unto God;
Psalm 62:12	Also unto Thee, O Lord, belongeth mercy; For Thou renderest to every man according to his work.
Psalm 63:1	A Psalm of David, when he was in the wilderness of Judah. O God, Thou art my God, earnestly will I seek Thee; My soul thirsteth for Thee, my flesh longeth for Thee, In a dry and weary land, where no water is.
Psalm 63:2	So have I looked for Thee in the sanctuary, To see Thy power and Thy glory.
Psalm 63:3	For Thy lovingkindness is better than life; My lips shall praise Thee.
Psalm 63:4	So will I bless Thee as long as I live; In Thy name will I lift up my hands.
Psalm 63:5	My soul is satisfied as with marrow and fatness; And my mouth doth praise Thee with joyful lips;
Psalm 63:6	When I remember Thee upon my couch, And meditate on Thee in the night-watches.
Psalm 63:7	For Thou hast been my help, And in the shadow of Thy wings do I rejoice.
Psalm 63:8	My soul cleaveth unto Thee; Thy right hand holdeth me fast.
Psalm 63:9	But those that seek my soul, to destroy it, Shall go into the nethermost parts of the earth.
Psalm 63:10	They shall be hurled to the power of the sword; They shall be a portion for foxes.
Psalm 63:11	But the king shall rejoice in God; Every one that sweareth by Him shall glory; For the mouth of them that speak lies shall be stopped.
Psalm 64:1	For the Leader. A Psalm of David. Hear my voice, O God, in my complaint; Preserve my life from the terror of the enemy.
Psalm 64:2	Hide me from the council of evil-doers; From the tumult of the workers of iniquity;
Psalm 64:3	Who have whet their tongue like a sword, And have aimed their arrow, a poisoned word;
Psalm 64:4	That they may shoot in secret places at the blameless; Suddenly do they shoot at him, and fear not.
Psalm 64:5	They encourage one another in an evil matter; They converse of laying snares secretly; They ask, who would see them.
Psalm 64:6	They search out iniquities, they have accomplished a diligent search; Even in the inward thought of every one, and the deep heart.
Psalm 64:7	But God doth shoot at them with an arrow suddenly; Thence are their wounds.
Psalm 64:8	So they make their own tongue a stumbling unto themselves; All that see them shake the head.
Psalm 64:9	And all men fear; And they declare the work of God, And understand His doing.
Psalm 64:10	The righteous shall be glad in the LORD, and shall take refuge in Him; And all the upright in heart shall glory.
Psalm 65:1	For the Leader. A Psalm. A Song of David. Praise waiteth for Thee, O God, in Zion; And unto Thee the vow is performed.
Psalm 65:2	O Thou that hearest prayer, Unto Thee doth all flesh come.
Psalm 65:3	The tale of iniquities is too heavy for me; As for our transgressions, Thou wilt pardon them.
Psalm 65:4	Happy is the man whom Thou choosest, and bringest near, That he may dwell in Thy courts; May we be satisfied with the goodness of Thy house, The holy place of Thy temple!
Psalm 65:5	With wondrous works dost Thou answer us in righteousness, O God of our salvation; Thou the confidence of all the ends of the earth, And of the far distant seas;
Psalm 65:6	Who by Thy strength settest fast the mountains, Who art girded about with might;
Psalm 65:7	Who stillest the roaring of the seas, the roaring of their waves, And the tumult of the peoples;
Psalm 65:8	So that they that dwell in the uttermost parts stand in awe of Thy signs; Thou makest the outgoings of the morning and evening to rejoice.
Psalm 65:9	Thou hast remembered the earth, and watered her, greatly enriching her, With the river of God that is full of water; Thou preparest them corn, for so preparest Thou her.
Psalm 65:10	Watering her ridges abundantly, Settling down the furrows thereof, Thou makest her soft with showers; Thou blessest the growth thereof.
Psalm 65:11	Thou crownest the year with Thy goodness; And Thy paths drop fatness.
Psalm 65:12	The pastures of the wilderness do drop; And the hills are girded with joy.
Psalm 65:13	The meadows are clothed with flocks; The valleys also are covered over with corn; They shout for joy, yea, they sing.
Psalm 66:1	For the Leader. A Song, a Psalm. Shout unto God, all the earth;
Psalm 66:2	Sing praises unto the glory of His name; Make His praise glorious.
Psalm 66:3	Say unto God: ‘How tremendous is Thy work! Through the greatness of Thy power shall Thine enemies dwindle away before Thee.
Psalm 66:4	All the earth shall worship Thee, And shall sing praises unto Thee; They shall sing praises to Thy name.’ Selah
Psalm 66:5	Come, and see the works of God; He is terrible in His doing toward the children of men.
Psalm 66:6	He turned the sea into dry land; They went through the river on foot; There let us rejoice in Him!
Psalm 66:7	Who ruleth by His might for ever; His eyes keep watch upon the nations; Let not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah
Psalm 66:8	Bless our God, ye peoples, And make the voice of His praise to be heard;
Psalm 66:9	Who hath set our soul in life, And suffered not our foot to be moved,
Psalm 66:10	For Thou, O God, hast tried us; Thou hast refined us, as silver is refined.
Psalm 66:11	Thou didst bring us into the hold; Thou didst lay constraint upon our loins.
Psalm 66:12	Thou hast caused men to ride over our heads; We went through fire and through water; But Thou didst bring us out unto abundance.
Psalm 66:13	I will come into Thy house with burnt-offerings, I will perform unto Thee my vows,
Psalm 66:14	Which my lips have uttered, And my mouth hath spoken, when I was in distress.
Psalm 66:15	I will offer unto Thee burnt-offerings of fatlings, With the sweet smoke of rams; I will offer bullocks with goats. Selah
Psalm 66:16	Come, and hearken, all ye that fear God, And I will declare what He hath done for my soul.
Psalm 66:17	I cried unto Him with my mouth, And He was extolled with my tongue.
Psalm 66:18	If I had regarded iniquity in my heart, The Lord would not hear;
Psalm 66:19	But verily God hath heard; He hath attended to the voice of my prayer.
Psalm 66:20	Blessed be God, Who hath not turned away my prayer, nor His mercy from me.
Psalm 67:1	For the Leader; with string-music. A Psalm, a Song. God be gracious unto us, and bless us; May He cause His face to shine toward us; Selah
Psalm 67:2	That Thy way may be known upon earth, Thy salvation among all nations.
Psalm 67:3	Let the peoples give thanks unto Thee, O God; Let the peoples give thanks unto Thee, all of them.
Psalm 67:4	O let the nations be glad and sing for joy; For Thou wilt judge the peoples with equity, And lead the nations upon earth. Selah
Psalm 67:5	Let the peoples give thanks unto Thee, O God; Let the peoples give thanks unto Thee, all of them.
Psalm 67:6	The earth hath yielded her increase; May God, our own God, bless us.
Psalm 67:7	May God bless us; And let all the ends of the earth fear Him.
Psalm 68:1	For the Leader. A Psalm of David, a Song. Let God arise, let His enemies be scattered; And let them that hate Him flee before Him.
Psalm 68:2	As smoke is driven away, so drive them away; As wax melteth before the fire, So let the wicked perish at the presence of God.
Psalm 68:3	But let the righteous be glad, let them exult before God; Yea, let them rejoice with gladness.
Psalm 68:4	Sing unto God, sing praises to His name; Extol Him that rideth upon the skies, whose name is the LORD; And exult ye before Him.
Psalm 68:5	A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, Is God in His holy habitation.
Psalm 68:6	God maketh the solitary to dwell in a house; He bringeth out the prisoners into prosperity; The rebellious dwell but in a parched land.
Psalm 68:7	O God, when Thou wentest forth before Thy people, When Thou didst march through the wilderness; Selah
Psalm 68:8	The earth trembled, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God; Even yon Sinai trembled at the presence of God, the God of Israel.
Psalm 68:9	A bounteous rain didst Thou pour down, O God; When Thine inheritance was weary, Thou didst confirm it.
Psalm 68:10	Thy flock settled therein; Thou didst prepare in Thy goodness for the poor, O God.
Psalm 68:11	The Lord giveth the word; The women that proclaim the tidings are a great host.
Psalm 68:12	Kings of armies flee, they flee; And she that tarrieth at home divideth the spoil.
Psalm 68:13	When ye lie among the sheepfolds, The wings of the dove are covered with silver, And her pinions with the shimmer of gold.
Psalm 68:14	When the Almighty scattereth kings therein, It snoweth in Zalmon.
Psalm 68:15	A mountain of God is the mountain of Bashan; A mountain of peaks is the mountain of Bashan.
Psalm 68:16	Why look ye askance, ye mountains of peaks, At the mountain which God hath desired for His abode? Yea, the LORD will dwell therein for ever.
Psalm 68:17	The chariots of God are myriads, even thousands upon thousands; The Lord is among them, as in Sinai, in holiness.
Psalm 68:18	Thou hast ascended on high, Thou hast led captivity captive; Thou hast received gifts among men, Yea, among the rebellious also, that the LORD God might dwell there.
Psalm 68:19	Blessed be the Lord, day by day He beareth our burden, Even the God who is our salvation. Selah
Psalm 68:20	God is unto us a God of deliverances; And unto GOD the Lord belong the issues of death.
Psalm 68:21	Surely God will smite through the head of His enemies, The hairy scalp of him that goeth about in his guiltiness.
Psalm 68:22	The Lord said: ‘I will bring back from Bashan, I will bring them back from the depths of the sea;
Psalm 68:23	That thy foot may wade through blood, That the tongue of thy dogs may have its portion from thine enemies.’
Psalm 68:24	They see Thy goings, O God, Even the goings of my God, my King, in holiness.
Psalm 68:25	The singers go before, the minstrels follow after, In the midst of damsels playing upon timbrels.
Psalm 68:26	Bless ye God in full assemblies, Even the Lord, ye that are from the fountain of Israel.’
Psalm 68:27	There is Benjamin, the youngest, ruling them, The princes of Judah their council, The princes of Zebulun, the princes of Naphtali.
Psalm 68:28	Thy God hath commanded thy strength; Be strong, O God, Thou that hast wrought for us
Psalm 68:29	Out of Thy temple at Jerusalem, Whither kings shall bring presents unto Thee.
Psalm 68:30	Rebuke the wild beast of the reeds, The multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the peoples, Every one submitting himself with pieces of silver; He hath scattered the peoples that delight in war!
Psalm 68:31	Nobles shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall hasten to stretch out her hands unto God.
Psalm 68:32	Sing unto God, ye kingdoms of the earth; O sing praises unto the Lord; Selah
Psalm 68:33	To Him that rideth upon the heavens of heavens, which are of old; Lo, He uttereth His voice, a mighty voice.
Psalm 68:34	Ascribe ye strength unto God; His majesty is over Israel, And His strength is in the skies.
Psalm 68:35	Awful is God out of thy holy places; The God of Israel, He giveth strength and power unto the people; Blessed be God.
Psalm 69:1	For the Leader; upon Shoshannim. [A Psalm] of David. Save me, O God; For the waters are come in even unto the soul.
Psalm 69:2	I am sunk in deep mire, where there is no standing; I am come into deep waters, and the flood overwhelmeth me.
Psalm 69:3	I am weary of my crying; my throat is dried; Mine eyes fail while I wait for my God.
Psalm 69:4	They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head; They that would cut me off, being mine enemies wrongfully, are many; Should I restore that which I took not away?
Psalm 69:5	O God, Thou knowest my folly; And my trespasses are not hid from Thee.
Psalm 69:6	Let not them that wait for Thee be ashamed through me, O Lord GOD of hosts; Let not those that seek Thee be brought to confusion through me, O God of Israel.
Psalm 69:7	Because for Thy sake I have borne reproach; Confusion hath covered my face.
Psalm 69:8	I am become a stranger unto my brethren, And an alien unto my mother’s children.
Psalm 69:9	Because zeal for Thy house hath eaten me up, And the reproaches of them that reproach Thee are fallen upon me.
Psalm 69:10	And I wept with my soul with fasting, And that became unto me a reproach.
Psalm 69:11	I made sackcloth also my garment, And I became a byword unto them.
Psalm 69:12	They that sit in the gate talk of me; And I am the song of the drunkards.
Psalm 69:13	But as for me, let my prayer be unto Thee, O LORD, in an acceptable time; O God, in the abundance of Thy mercy, Answer me with the truth of Thy salvation.
Psalm 69:14	Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink; Let me be delivered from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters.
Psalm 69:15	Let not the waterflood overwhelm me, Neither let the deep swallow me up; And let not the pit shut her mouth upon me.
Psalm 69:16	Answer me, O LORD, for Thy mercy is good; According to the multitude of Thy compassions turn Thou unto me.
Psalm 69:17	And hide not Thy face from Thy servant; For I am in distress; answer me speedily.
Psalm 69:18	Draw nigh unto my soul, and redeem it; Ransom me because of mine enemies.
Psalm 69:19	Thou knowest my reproach, and my shame, and my confusion; Mine adversaries are all before Thee.
Psalm 69:20	Reproach hath broken my heart; and I am sore sick; And I looked for some to show compassion, but there was none; And for comforters, but I found none.
Psalm 69:21	Yea, they put poison into my food; And in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink.
Psalm 69:22	Let their table before them become a snare; And when they are in peace, let it become a trap.
Psalm 69:23	Let their eyes be darkened, that they see not; And make their loins continually to totter.
Psalm 69:24	Pour out Thine indignation upon them, And let the fierceness of Thine anger overtake them.
Psalm 69:25	Let their encampment be desolate; Let none dwell in their tents.
Psalm 69:26	For they persecute him whom Thou hast smitten; And they tell of the pain of those whom Thou hast wounded.
Psalm 69:27	Add iniquity unto their iniquity; And let them not come into Thy righteousness.
Psalm 69:28	Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, And not be written with the righteous.
Psalm 69:29	But I am afflicted and in pain; Let Thy salvation, O God, set me up on high.
Psalm 69:30	I will praise the name of God with a song, And will magnify Him with thanksgiving.
Psalm 69:31	And it shall please the LORD better than a bullock That hath horns and hoofs.
Psalm 69:32	The humble shall see it, and be glad; Ye that seek after God, let your heart revive.
Psalm 69:33	For the LORD hearkeneth unto the needy, And despiseth not His prisoners.
Psalm 69:34	Let heaven and earth praise Him, The seas, and every thing that moveth therein.
Psalm 69:35	For God will save Zion, and build the cities of Judah; And they shall abide there, and have it in possession.
Psalm 69:36	The seed also of His servants shall inherit it; And they that love His name shall dwell therein.
Psalm 70:1	For the Leader. [A Psalm] of David; to make memorial. O God, to deliver me, O LORD, to help me, make haste.
Psalm 70:2	Let them be ashamed and abashed That seek after my soul; Let them be turned backward and brought to confusion That delight in my hurt.
Psalm 70:3	Let them be turned back by reason of their shame That say: ‘Aha, aha.’
Psalm 70:4	Let all those that seek Thee rejoice and be glad in Thee; And let such as love Thy salvation say continually: ‘Let God be magnified.’
Psalm 70:5	But I am poor and needy; O God, make haste unto me; Thou art my help and my deliverer; O LORD, tarry not.
Psalm 71:1	In Thee, O LORD, have I taken refuge; Let me never be ashamed.
Psalm 71:2	Deliver me in Thy righteousness, and rescue me; Incline Thine ear unto me, and save me.
Psalm 71:3	Be Thou to me a sheltering rock, whereunto I may continually resort, Which Thou hast appointed to save me; For Thou art my rock and my fortress.
Psalm 71:4	O my God, rescue me out of the hand of the wicked, Out of the grasp of the unrighteous and ruthless man.
Psalm 71:5	For Thou art my hope; O Lord GOD, my trust from my youth.
Psalm 71:6	Upon Thee have I stayed myself from birth; Thou art he that took me out of my mother’s womb; My praise is continually of Thee.
Psalm 71:7	I am as a wonder unto many; But Thou art my strong refuge.
Psalm 71:8	My mouth shall be filled with Thy praise, And with Thy glory all the day.
Psalm 71:9	Cast me not off in the time of old age; When my strength faileth, forsake me not.
Psalm 71:10	For mine enemies speak concerning me, And they that watch for my soul take counsel together,
Psalm 71:11	Saying: ‘God hath forsaken him; Pursue and take him; for there is none to deliver.’
Psalm 71:12	O God, be not far from me; O my God, make haste to help me.
Psalm 71:13	Let them be ashamed and consumed that are adversaries to my soul; Let them be covered with reproach and confusion that seek my hurt.
Psalm 71:14	But as for me, I will hope continually, And will praise Thee yet more and more.
Psalm 71:15	My mouth shall tell of Thy righteousness, And of Thy salvation all the day; For I know not the numbers thereof.
Psalm 71:16	I will come with Thy mighty acts, O Lord GOD; I will make mention of Thy righteousness, even of Thine only.
Psalm 71:17	O God, Thou hast taught me from my youth; And until now do I declare Thy wondrous works.
Psalm 71:18	And even unto old age and hoary hairs, O God, forsake me not; Until I have declared Thy strength unto the next generation, Thy might to every one that is to come.
Psalm 71:19	Thy righteousness also, O God, which reacheth unto high heaven; Thou who hast done great things, O God, who is like unto Thee?
Psalm 71:20	Thou, who hast made me to see many and sore troubles, Wilt quicken me again, and bring me up again from the depths of the earth.
Psalm 71:21	Thou wilt increase my greatness, And turn and comfort me.
Psalm 71:22	I also will give thanks unto Thee with the psaltery, Even unto Thy truth, O my God; I will sing praises unto Thee with the harp, O Thou Holy One of Israel.
Psalm 71:23	My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing praises unto Thee; And my soul, which Thou hast redeemed.
Psalm 71:24	My tongue also shall tell of Thy righteousness all the day; For they are ashamed, for they are abashed, that seek my hurt.
Psalm 72:1	[A Psalm] of Solomon. Give the king Thy judgments, O God, And Thy righteousness unto the king’s son;
Psalm 72:2	That he may judge Thy people with righteousness, And Thy poor with justice.
Psalm 72:3	Let the mountains bear peace to the people, And the hills, through righteousness.
Psalm 72:4	May he judge the poor of the people, And save the children of the needy, And crush the oppressor.
Psalm 72:5	They shall fear Thee while the sun endureth, And so long as the moon, throughout all generations.
Psalm 72:6	May he come down like rain upon the mown grass, As showers that water the earth.
Psalm 72:7	In his days let the righteous flourish, And abundance of peace, till the moon be no more.
Psalm 72:8	May he have dominion also from sea to sea, And from the River unto the ends of the earth.
Psalm 72:9	Let them that dwell in the wilderness bow before him; And his enemies lick the dust.
Psalm 72:10	The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall render tribute; The kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts.
Psalm 72:11	Yea, all kings shall prostrate themselves before him; All nations shall serve him.
Psalm 72:12	For he will deliver the needy when he crieth; the poor also, and him that hath no helper.
Psalm 72:13	He will have pity on the poor and needy, And the souls of the needy he will save.
Psalm 72:14	He will redeem their soul from oppression and violence, And precious will their blood be in his sight.
Psalm 72:15	That they may live, and that he may give them of the gold of Sheba, That they may pray for him continually, Yea, bless him all the day.
Psalm 72:16	May he be as a rich cornfield in the land upon the top of the mountains; May his fruit rustle like Lebanon; And may they blossom out of the city like grass of the earth.
Psalm 72:17	May his name endure for ever; May his name be continued as long as the sun; May men also bless themselves by him; May all nations call him happy.
Psalm 72:18	Blessed be the LORD God, the God of Israel, Who only doeth wondrous things;
Psalm 72:19	And blessed be His glorious name for ever; And let the whole earth be filled with His glory. Amen, and Amen.
Psalm 72:20	The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended.
Psalm 73:1	A Psalm of Asaph. Surely God is good to Israel, Even to such as are pure in heart.
Psalm 73:2	But as for me, my feet were almost gone; My steps had well nigh slipped.
Psalm 73:3	For I was envious at the arrogant, When I saw the prosperity of the wicked.
Psalm 73:4	For there are no pangs at their death, And their body is sound.
Psalm 73:5	In the trouble of man they are not; Neither are they plagued like men.
Psalm 73:6	Therefore pride is as a chain about their neck; Violence covereth them as a garment.
Psalm 73:7	Their eyes stand forth from fatness; They are gone beyond the imaginations of their heart.
Psalm 73:8	They scoff, and in wickedness utter oppression; They speak as if there were none on high.
Psalm 73:9	They have set their mouth against the heavens, And their tongue walketh through the earth.
Psalm 73:10	Therefore His people return hither; And waters of fullness are drained out by them.
Psalm 73:11	And they say: ‘How doth God know? And is there knowledge in the Most High?’
Psalm 73:12	Behold, such are the wicked; And they that are always at ease increase riches.
Psalm 73:13	Surely in vain have I cleansed my heart, And washed my hands in innocency;
Psalm 73:14	For all the day have I been plagued, And my chastisement came every morning.
Psalm 73:15	If I had said: ‘I will speak thus’, Behold, I had been faithless to the generation of Thy children.
Psalm 73:16	And when I pondered how I might know this, It was wearisome in mine eyes;
Psalm 73:17	Until I entered into the sanctuary of God, And considered their end.
Psalm 73:18	Surely Thou settest them in slippery places; Thou hurlest them down to utter ruin.
Psalm 73:19	How are they become a desolation in a moment! They are wholly consumed by terrors.
Psalm 73:20	As a dream when one awaketh, So, O Lord, when Thou arousest Thyself, Thou wilt despise their semblance.
Psalm 73:21	For my heart was in a ferment, And I was pricked in my reins.
Psalm 73:22	But I was brutish, and ignorant; I was as a beast before Thee.
Psalm 73:23	Nevertheless I am continually with Thee; Thou holdest my right hand.
Psalm 73:24	Thou wilt guide me with Thy counsel, And afterward receive me with glory.
Psalm 73:25	Whom have I in heaven but Thee? And beside Thee I desire none upon earth.
Psalm 73:26	My flesh and my heart faileth; But God is the rock of my heart and my portion for ever.
Psalm 73:27	For, lo, they that go far from Thee shall perish; Thou dost destroy all them that go astray from Thee.
Psalm 73:28	But as for me, the nearness of God is my good; I have made the Lord GOD my refuge, That I may tell of all Thy works.
Psalm 74:1	Maschil of Asaph. Why, O God, hast Thou cast us off for ever? Why doth Thine anger smoke against the flock of Thy pasture?
Psalm 74:2	Remember Thy congregation, which Thou hast gotten of old, Which Thou hast redeemed to be the tribe of Thine inheritance; And mount Zion, wherein Thou hast dwelt.
Psalm 74:3	Lift up Thy steps because of the perpetual ruins, Even all the evil that the enemy hath done in the sanctuary.
Psalm 74:4	Thine adversaries have roared in the midst of Thy meeting-place; They have set up their own signs for signs.
Psalm 74:5	It seemed as when men wield upwards Axes in a thicket of trees.
Psalm 74:6	And now all the carved work thereof together They strike down with hatchet and hammers.
Psalm 74:7	They have set Thy sanctuary on fire; They have profaned the dwelling-place of Thy name even to the ground.
Psalm 74:8	They said in their heart: ‘Let us make havoc of them altogether’; They have burned up all the meeting-places of God in the land.
Psalm 74:9	We see not our signs; There is no more any prophet; Neither is there among us any that knoweth how long.
Psalm 74:10	How long, O God, shall the adversary reproach? Shall the enemy blaspheme Thy name for ever?
Psalm 74:11	Why withdrawest Thou Thy hand, even Thy right hand? Draw it out of Thy bosom and consume them.
Psalm 74:12	Yet God is my King of old, Working salvation in the midst of the earth.
Psalm 74:13	Thou didst break the sea in pieces by Thy strength; Thou didst shatter the heads of the sea-monsters in the waters.
Psalm 74:14	Thou didst crush the heads of leviathan, Thou gavest him to be food to the folk inhabiting the wilderness.
Psalm 74:15	Thou didst cleave fountain and brook; Thou driedst up ever-flowing rivers.
Psalm 74:16	Thine is the day, Thine also the night; Thou hast established luminary and sun.
Psalm 74:17	Thou hast set all the borders of the earth; Thou hast made summer and winter.
Psalm 74:18	Remember this, how the enemy hath reproached the LORD, And how a base people have blasphemed Thy name.
Psalm 74:19	O deliver not the soul of Thy turtle-dove unto the wild beast; Forget not the life of Thy poor for ever.
Psalm 74:20	Look upon the covenant; For the dark places of the land are full of the habitations of violence.
Psalm 74:21	O let not the oppressed turn back in confusion; Let the poor and needy praise Thy name.
Psalm 74:22	Arise, O God, plead Thine own cause; Remember Thy reproach all the day at the hand of the base man.
Psalm 74:23	Forget not the voice of Thine adversaries, The tumult of those that rise up against Thee which ascendeth continually.
Psalm 75:1	For the Leader; Al-tashheth. A Psalm of Asaph, a Song. We give thanks unto Thee, O God, We give thanks, and Thy name is near; Men tell of Thy wondrous works.
Psalm 75:2	When I take the appointed time, I Myself will judge with equity.
Psalm 75:3	When the earth and all the inhabitants thereof are dissolved, I Myself establish the pillars of it.’ Selah
Psalm 75:4	I say unto the arrogant ‘Deal not arrogantly’; And to the wicked ‘Lift not up the horn.’
Psalm 75:5	Lift not up your horn on high; Speak not insolence with a haughty neck.
Psalm 75:6	For neither from the east, nor from the west, Nor yet from the wilderness, cometh lifting up.
Psalm 75:7	For God is judge; He putteth down one, and lifteth up another.
Psalm 75:8	For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup, with foaming wine, full of mixture, And He poureth out of the same; Surely the dregs thereof, all the wicked of the earth shall drain them, and drink them.
Psalm 75:9	But as for me, I will declare for ever, I will sing praises to the God of Jacob.
Psalm 75:10	All the horns of the wicked also will I cut off; But the horns of the righteous shall be lifted up.
Psalm 76:1	For the Leader; with string-music. A Psalm of Asaph, a Song. In Judah is God known; His name is great in Israel.
Psalm 76:2	In Salem also is set His tabernacle, And His dwelling-place in Zion.
Psalm 76:3	There He broke the fiery shafts of the bow; The shield, and the sword, and the battle. Selah
Psalm 76:4	Glorious art Thou and excellent, coming down from the mountains of prey.
Psalm 76:5	The stout-hearted are bereft of sense, they sleep their sleep; And none of the men of might have found their hands.
Psalm 76:6	At Thy rebuke, O God of Jacob, They are cast into a dead sleep, the riders also and the horses.
Psalm 76:7	Thou, even Thou, art terrible; And who may stand in Thy sight when once Thou art angry?
Psalm 76:8	Thou didst cause sentence to be heard from heaven; The earth feared, and was still,
Psalm 76:9	When God arose to judgment, To save all the humble of the earth. Selah
Psalm 76:10	Surely the wrath of man shall praise Thee; The residue of wrath shalt Thou gird upon Thee.
Psalm 76:11	Vow, and pay unto the LORD your God; Let all that are round about Him bring presents unto Him that is to be feared;
Psalm 76:12	He minisheth the spirit of princes; He is terrible to the kings of the earth.
Psalm 77:1	For the Leader; for Jeduthun. A Psalm of Asaph. I will lift up my voice unto God, an cry; I will lift up my voice unto God, that He may give ear unto me.
Psalm 77:2	In the day of my trouble I seek the Lord; With my hand uplifted, [mine eye] streameth in the night without ceasing; My soul refuseth to be comforted.
Psalm 77:3	When I think thereon, O God, I must moan; When I muse thereon, my spirit fainteth. Selah
Psalm 77:4	Thou holdest fast the lids of mine eyes; I am troubled, and cannot speak.
Psalm 77:5	I have pondered the days of old, the years of ancient times.
Psalm 77:6	In the night I will call to remembrance my song; I will commune with mine own heart; And my spirit maketh diligent search
Psalm 77:7	Will the Lord cast off for ever? And will He be favourable no more?
Psalm 77:8	Is His mercy clean gone for ever? Is His promise come to an end for evermore?
Psalm 77:9	Hath God forgotten to be gracious? Hath He in anger shut up his compassions?’ Selah
Psalm 77:10	And I say ‘This is my weakness, That the right hand of the Most High could change.
Psalm 77:11	I will make mention of the deeds of the LORD; Yea, I will remember Thy wonders of old.
Psalm 77:12	I will meditate also upon all Thy work, And muse on Thy doings.’
Psalm 77:13	O God, Thy way is in holiness; Who is a great god like unto God?
Psalm 77:14	Thou art the God that doest wonders; Thou hast made known Thy strength among the peoples.
Psalm 77:15	Thou hast with Thine arm redeemed Thy people, The sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah
Psalm 77:16	The waters saw Thee, O God; The waters saw Thee, they were in pain; The depths also trembled.
Psalm 77:17	The clouds flooded forth waters; The skies sent out a sound; Thine arrows also went abroad.
Psalm 77:18	The voice of Thy thunder was in the whirlwind; The lightnings lighted up the world; The earth trembled and shook.
Psalm 77:19	Thy way was in the sea, And Thy path in the great waters, And Thy footsteps were not known.
Psalm 77:20	Thou didst lead Thy people like a flock, By the hand of Moses and Aaron.
Psalm 78:1	Maschil of Asaph. Give ear, O my people, to my teaching; Incline your ears to the words of my mouth.
Psalm 78:2	I will open my mouth with a parable; I will utter dark sayings concerning days of old;
Psalm 78:3	That which we have heard and known, And our fathers have told us,
Psalm 78:4	We will not hide from their children, Telling to the generation to come the praises of the LORD, And His strength, and His wondrous works that He hath done.
Psalm 78:5	For He established a testimony in Jacob, And appointed a law in Israel, Which He commanded our fathers, That they should make them known to their children;
Psalm 78:6	That the generation to come might know them, even the children that should be born; Who should arise and tell them to their children,
Psalm 78:7	That they might put their confidence in God, And not forget the works of God, But keep His commandments;
Psalm 78:8	And might not be as their fathers, A stubborn and rebellious generation; A generation that set not their heart aright, And whose spirit was not stedfast with God.
Psalm 78:9	The children of Ephraim were as archers handling the bow, That turned back in the day of battle.
Psalm 78:10	They kept not the covenant of God, And refused to walk in His law;
Psalm 78:11	And they forgot His doings, And His wondrous works that He had shown them.
Psalm 78:12	Marvellous things did He in the sight of their fathers, In the land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan.
Psalm 78:13	He cleaved the sea, and caused them to pass through; And He made the waters to stand as a heap.
Psalm 78:14	By day also He led them with a cloud, And all the night with a light of fire.
Psalm 78:15	He cleaved rocks in the wilderness, And gave them drink abundantly as out of the great deep.
Psalm 78:16	He brought streams also out of the rock, And caused waters to run down like rivers.
Psalm 78:17	Yet went they on still to sin against Him, To rebel against the Most High in the desert.
Psalm 78:18	And they tried God in their heart By asking food for their craving.
Psalm 78:19	Yea, they spoke against God; They said ‘Can God prepare a table in the wilderness?
Psalm 78:20	Behold, He smote the rock, that waters gushed out, And streams overflowed; Can He give bread also? Or will He provide flesh for His people?’
Psalm 78:21	Therefore the LORD heard, and was wroth; And a fire was kindled against Jacob, And anger also went up against Israel;
Psalm 78:22	Because they believed not in God, And trusted not in His salvation.
Psalm 78:23	And He commanded the skies above, And opened the doors of heaven;
Psalm 78:24	And He caused manna to rain upon them for food, And gave them of the corn of heaven.
Psalm 78:25	Man did eat the bread of the mighty; He sent them provisions to the full.
Psalm 78:26	He caused the east wind to set forth in heaven; And by His power He brought on the south wind.
Psalm 78:27	He caused flesh also to rain upon them as the dust, And winged fowl as the sand of the seas;
Psalm 78:28	And He let it fall in the midst of their camp, Round about their dwellings.
Psalm 78:29	So they did eat, and were well filled; And He gave them that which they craved.
Psalm 78:30	They were not estranged from their craving, Their food was yet in their mouths,
Psalm 78:31	When the anger of God went up against them, And slew of the lustieth among them, And smote down the young men of Israel.
Psalm 78:32	For all this they sinned still, And believed not in His wondrous works.
Psalm 78:33	Therefore He ended their days as a breath, And their years in terror.
Psalm 78:34	When He slew them, then they would inquire after Him, And turn back and seek God earnestly.
Psalm 78:35	And they remembered that God was their Rock, And the Most High God their redeemer.
Psalm 78:36	But they beguiled Him with their mouth, And lied unto Him with their tongue.
Psalm 78:37	For their heart was not stedfast with Him, Neither were they faithful in His covenant.
Psalm 78:38	But He, being full of compassion, forgiveth iniquity, and destroyeth not; Yea, many a time doth He turn His anger away, And doth not stir up all His wrath.
Psalm 78:39	So He remembered that they were but flesh, A wind that passeth away, and cometh not again.
Psalm 78:40	How oft did they rebel against Him in the wilderness, And grieve Him in the desert!
Psalm 78:41	And still again they tried God, And set bounds to the Holy One of Israel.
Psalm 78:42	They remembered not His hand, Nor the day when He redeemed them from the adversary.
Psalm 78:43	How He set His signs in Egypt, And His wonders in the field of Zoan;
Psalm 78:44	And turned their rivers into blood, So that they could not drink their streams.
Psalm 78:45	He sent among them swarms of flies, which devoured them; And frogs, which destroyed them.
Psalm 78:46	He gave also their increase unto the caterpillar, And their labour unto the locust.
Psalm 78:47	He destroyed their vines with hail, And their sycamore-trees with frost.
Psalm 78:48	He gave over their cattle also to the hail, And their flocks to fiery bolts.
Psalm 78:49	He sent forth upon them the fierceness of His anger, Wrath, and indignation, and trouble, A sending of messengers of evil.
Psalm 78:50	He levelled a path for His anger; He spared not their soul from death, But gave their life over to the pestilence;
Psalm 78:51	And smote all the first-born in Egypt, The first-fruits of their strength in the tents of Ham;
Psalm 78:52	But He made His own people to go forth like sheep, And guided them in the wilderness like a flock.
Psalm 78:53	And He led them safely, and they feared not; But the sea overwhelmed their enemies.
Psalm 78:54	And He brought them to His holy border, To the mountain, which His right hand had gotten.
Psalm 78:55	He drove out the nations also before them, And allotted them for an inheritance by line, And made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents.
Psalm 78:56	Yet they tried and provoked God, the Most High, And kept not His testimonies;
Psalm 78:57	But turned back, and dealt treacherously like their fathers; They were turned aside like a deceitful bow.
Psalm 78:58	For they provoked Him with their high places, And moved Him to jealousy with their graven images.
Psalm 78:59	God heard, and was wroth, And He greatly abhorred Israel;
Psalm 78:60	And He forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, The tent which He had made to dwell among men;
Psalm 78:61	And delivered His strength into captivity, And His glory into the adversary’s hand.
Psalm 78:62	He gave His people over also unto the sword; And was wroth with His inheritance.
Psalm 78:63	Fire devoured their young men; And their virgins had no marriage-song.
Psalm 78:64	Their priests fell by the sword; And their widows made no lamentation.
Psalm 78:65	Then the Lord awaked as one asleep, Like a mighty man recovering from wine.
Psalm 78:66	And He smote His adversaries backward; He put upon them a perpetual reproach.
Psalm 78:67	Moreover He abhorred the tent of Joseph, And chose not the tribe of Ephraim;
Psalm 78:68	But chose the tribe of Judah, The mount Zion which He loved.
Psalm 78:69	And He built His sanctuary like the heights, Like the earth which He hath founded for ever.
Psalm 78:70	He chose David also His servant, And took him from the sheepfolds;
Psalm 78:71	From following the ewes that give suck He brought him, To be shepherd over Jacob His people, and Israel His inheritance.
Psalm 78:72	So he shepherded them according to the integrity of his heart; And lead them by the skilfulness of his hands.
Psalm 79:1	A Psalm of Asaph. O God, the heathen are come into Thine inheritance; They have defiled Thy holy temple; They have made Jerusalem into heaps.
Psalm 79:2	They have given the dead bodies of Thy servants to be food unto the fowls of the heaven, The flesh of Thy saints unto the beasts of the earth.
Psalm 79:3	They have shed their blood like water Round about Jerusalem, with none to bury them.
Psalm 79:4	We are become a taunt to our neighbours, A scorn and derision to them that are round about us.
Psalm 79:5	How long, O LORD, wilt Thou be angry for ever? How long will Thy jealousy burn like fire?
Psalm 79:6	Pour out Thy wrath upon the nations that know Thee not, And upon the kingdoms that call not upon Thy name.
Psalm 79:7	For they have devoured Jacob, And laid waste his habitation.
Psalm 79:8	Remember not against us the iniquities of our forefathers; Let Thy compassions speedily come to meet us; For we are brought very low.
Psalm 79:9	Help us, O God of our salvation, for the sake of the glory of Thy name; And deliver us, and forgive our sins, for Thy name’s sake.
Psalm 79:10	Wherefore should the nations say: ‘Where is their God?’ Let the avenging of Thy servants’ blood that is shed Be made known among the nations in our sight.
Psalm 79:11	Let the groaning of the prisoner come before Thee; According to the greatness of Thy power set free those that are appointed to death;
Psalm 79:12	And render unto our neighbours sevenfold into their bosom Their reproach, wherewith they have reproached Thee, O Lord.
Psalm 79:13	So we that are Thy people and the flock of Thy pasture Will give Thee thanks for ever; We will tell of Thy praise to all generations.
Psalm 80:1	For the Leader; upon Shoshannim. A testimony. A Psalm of Asaph. Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, Thou that leadest Joseph like a flock; Thou that art enthroned upon the cherubim, shine forth.
Psalm 80:2	Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up Thy might, And come to save us.
Psalm 80:3	O God, restore us; And cause Thy face to shine, and we shall be saved.
Psalm 80:4	O LORD God of hosts, How long wilt Thou be angry against the prayer of Thy people?
Psalm 80:5	Thou hast fed them with the bread of tears, And given them tears to drink in large measure.
Psalm 80:6	Thou makest us a strife unto our neighbours; And our enemies mock as they please.
Psalm 80:7	O God of hosts, restore us; And cause Thy face to shine, and we shall be saved.
Psalm 80:8	Thou didst pluck up a vine out of Egypt; Thou didst drive out the nations, and didst plant it.
Psalm 80:9	Thou didst clear a place before it, And it took deep root, and filled the land.
Psalm 80:10	The mountains were covered with the shadow of it, And the mighty cedars with the boughs thereof.
Psalm 80:11	She sent out her branches unto the sea, And her shoots unto the River.
Psalm 80:12	Why hast Thou broken down her fences, So that all they that pass by the way do pluck her?
Psalm 80:13	The boar out of the wood doth ravage it, That which moveth in the field feedeth on it.
Psalm 80:14	O God of hosts, return, we beseech Thee; Look from heaven, and behold, and be mindful of this vine,
Psalm 80:15	And of the stock which Thy right hand hath planted, And the branch that Thou madest strong for Thyself.
Psalm 80:16	It is burned with fire, it is cut down; They perish at the rebuke of Thy countenance.
Psalm 80:17	Let Thy hand be upon the man of Thy right hand, Upon the son of man whom Thou madest strong for Thyself.
Psalm 80:18	So shall we not turn back from Thee; Quicken Thou us, and we will call upon Thy name.
Psalm 80:19	O LORD God of hosts, restore us; Cause Thy face to shine, and we shall be saved.
Psalm 81:1	For the Leader; upon the Gittith. [A Psalm] of Asaph. Sing aloud unto God our strength; Shout unto the God of Jacob.
Psalm 81:2	Take up the melody, and sound the timbrel, The sweet harp with the psaltery.
Psalm 81:3	Blow the horn at the new moon, At the full moon for our feast-day.
Psalm 81:4	For it is a statute for Israel, An ordinance of the God of Jacob.
Psalm 81:5	He appointed it in Joseph for a testimony, When He went forth against the land of Egypt. The speech of one that I knew not did I hear:
Psalm 81:6	I removed his shoulder from the burden; His hands were freed from the basket.
Psalm 81:7	Thou didst call in trouble, and I rescued thee; I answered thee in the secret place of thunder; I proved thee at the waters of Meribah. Selah
Psalm 81:8	Hear, O My people, and I will admonish thee: O Israel, if thou wouldest hearken unto Me!
Psalm 81:9	There shall no strange god be in thee; neither shalt thou worship any foreign god.
Psalm 81:10	I am the LORD thy God, who brought thee up out of the land of Egypt; open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it.
Psalm 81:11	But My people hearkened not to My voice; And Israel would none of Me.
Psalm 81:12	So I let them go after the stubbornness of their heart, That they might walk in their own counsels.
Psalm 81:13	Oh that My people would hearken unto Me, That Israel would walk in My ways!
Psalm 81:14	I would soon subdue their enemies, And turn My hand against their adversaries.
Psalm 81:15	The haters of the LORD should dwindle away before Him; And their punishment should endure for ever.
Psalm 81:16	They should also be fed with the fat of wheat; And with honey out of the rock would I satisfy thee.’
Psalm 82:1	A Psalm of Asaph. God standeth in the congregation of God; In the midst of the judges He judgeth:
Psalm 82:2	How long will ye judge unjustly, And respect the persons of the wicked? Selah
Psalm 82:3	Judge the poor and fatherless; Do justice to the afflicted and destitute.
Psalm 82:4	Rescue the poor and needy; Deliver them out of the hand of the wicked.
Psalm 82:5	They know not, neither do they understand; They go about in darkness; All the foundations of the earth are moved.
Psalm 82:6	I said: Ye are godlike beings, And all of you sons of the Most High.
Psalm 82:7	Nevertheless ye shall die like men, And fall like one of the princes.’
Psalm 82:8	Arise, O God, judge the earth; For Thou shalt possess all the nations.
Psalm 83:1	A Song, a Psalm of Asaph. O God, keep not Thou silence; Hold not Thy peace, and be not still, O God.
Psalm 83:2	For, lo, Thine enemies are in an uproar; And they that hate Thee have lifted up the head.
Psalm 83:3	They hold crafty converse against Thy people, And take counsel against Thy treasured ones.
Psalm 83:4	They have said: ‘Come, and let us cut them off from being a nation; That the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance.’
Psalm 83:5	For they have consulted together with one consent; Against Thee do they make a covenant;
Psalm 83:6	The tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites; Moab, and the Hagrites;
Psalm 83:7	Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek; Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre;
Psalm 83:8	Assyria also is joined with them; They have been an arm to the children of Lot. Selah
Psalm 83:9	Do Thou unto them as unto Midian; As to Sisera, as to Jabin, at the brook Kishon;
Psalm 83:10	Who were destroyed at En-dor; They became as dung for the earth.
Psalm 83:11	Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb, And like Zebah and Zalmunna all their princes;
Psalm 83:12	Who said: ‘Let us take to ourselves in possession The habitations of God.’
Psalm 83:13	O my God, make them like the whirling dust; As stubble before the wind.
Psalm 83:14	As the fire that burneth the forest, And as the flame that setteth the mountains ablaze;
Psalm 83:15	So pursue them with Thy tempest, And affright them with Thy storm.
Psalm 83:16	Fill their faces with shame; That they may seek Thy name, O LORD.
Psalm 83:17	Let them be ashamed and affrighted for ever; Yea, let them be abashed and perish;
Psalm 83:18	That they may know that it is Thou alone whose name is the LORD, The Most High over all the earth.
Psalm 84:1	For the Leader; upon the Gittith. A Psalm of the sons of Korah. How lovely are Thy tabernacles, O LORD of hosts!
Psalm 84:2	My soul yearneth, yea, even pineth for the courts of the LORD; My heart and my flesh sing for joy unto the living God.
Psalm 84:3	Yea, the sparrow hath found a house, and the swallow a nest for herself, Where she may lay her young; Thine altars, O LORD of hosts, My King, and my God—
Psalm 84:4	Happy are they that dwell in Thy house, They are ever praising Thee. Selah
Psalm 84:5	Happy is the man whose strength is in Thee; In whose heart are the highways.
Psalm 84:6	Passing through the valley of Baca they make it a place of springs; Yea, the early rain clotheth it with blessings.
Psalm 84:7	They go from strength to strength, Every one of them appeareth before God in Zion.
Psalm 84:8	O LORD God of hosts, hear my prayer; Give ear, O God of Jacob. Selah
Psalm 84:9	Behold, O God our shield, And look upon the face of Thine anointed.
Psalm 84:10	For a day in Thy courts is better than a thousand; I had rather stand at the threshold of the house of my God, Than to dwell in the tents of wickedness.
Psalm 84:11	For the LORD God is a sun and a shield; The LORD giveth grace and glory; No good thing will He withhold from them that walk uprightly.
Psalm 84:12	O LORD of hosts, Happy is the man that trusteth in Thee.
Psalm 85:1	For the Leader. A Psalm of the sons of Korah. LORD, Thou hast been favourable unto Thy land, Thou hast turned the captivity of Jacob.
Psalm 85:2	Thou hast forgiven the iniquity of Thy people, Thou hast pardoned all their sin. Selah
Psalm 85:3	Thou hast withdrawn all Thy wrath; Thou hast turned from the fierceness of Thine anger.
Psalm 85:4	Restore us, O God of our salvation, And cause Thine indignation toward us to cease.
Psalm 85:5	Wilt Thou be angry with us for ever? Wilt Thou draw out Thine anger to all generations?
Psalm 85:6	Wilt Thou not quicken us again, That Thy people may rejoice in Thee?
Psalm 85:7	Show us Thy mercy, O LORD, And grant us Thy salvation.
Psalm 85:8	I will hear what God the LORD will speak; For He will speak peace unto His people, and to His saints; But let them not turn back to folly.
Psalm 85:9	Surely His salvation is nigh them that fear Him; That glory may dwell in our land.
Psalm 85:10	Mercy and truth are met together; Righteousness and peace have kissed each other.
Psalm 85:11	Truth springeth out of the earth; And righteousness hath looked down from heaven.
Psalm 85:12	Yea, the LORD will give that which is good; And our land shall yield her produce.
Psalm 85:13	Righteousness shall go before Him, And shall make His footsteps a way.
Psalm 86:1	A Prayer of David. Incline Thine ear, O LORD, and answer me; For I am poor and needy.
Psalm 86:2	Keep my soul, for I am godly; O Thou my God, save Thy servant that trusteth in Thee.
Psalm 86:3	Be gracious unto me, O Lord; For unto Thee do I cry all the day.
Psalm 86:4	Rejoice the soul of Thy servant; For unto Thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul.
Psalm 86:5	For Thou, Lord, art good, and ready to pardon, And plenteous in mercy unto all them that call upon Thee.
Psalm 86:6	Give ear, O LORD, unto my prayer; And attend unto the voice of my supplications.
Psalm 86:7	In the day of my trouble I call upon Thee; For Thou wilt answer me.
Psalm 86:8	There is none like unto Thee among the gods, O Lord, And there are no works like Thine.
Psalm 86:9	All nations whom Thou hast made shall come and prostrate themselves before Thee, O Lord; And they shall glorify Thy name.
Psalm 86:10	For Thou art great, and doest wondrous things; Thou art God alone.
Psalm 86:11	Teach me, O LORD, Thy way, that I may walk in Thy truth; Make one my heart to fear Thy name.
Psalm 86:12	I will thank Thee, O Lord my God, with my whole heart; And I will glorify Thy name for evermore.
Psalm 86:13	For great is Thy mercy toward me; And Thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest nether-world.
Psalm 86:14	O God, the proud are risen up against me, And the company of violent men have sought after my soul, And have not set Thee before them.
Psalm 86:15	But Thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion and gracious, Slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy and truth.
Psalm 86:16	O turn unto me, and be gracious unto me; Give Thy strength unto Thy servant, And save the son of Thy handmaid.
Psalm 86:17	Work in my behalf a sign for good; That they that hate me may see it, and be put to shame, Because Thou, LORD, hast helped me, and comforted me.
Psalm 87:1	A Psalm of the sons of Korah; a Song. His foundation is in the holy mountains.
Psalm 87:2	The LORD loveth the gates of Zion More than all the dwellings of Jacob.
Psalm 87:3	Glorious things are spoken of Thee, O city of God. Selah
Psalm 87:4	I will make mention of Rahab and Babylon as among them that know Me; Behold Philistia, and Tyre, with Ethiopia; This one was born there.’
Psalm 87:5	But of Zion it shall be said: ‘This man and that was born in her; And the Most High Himself doth establish her.’
Psalm 87:6	The LORD shall count in the register of the peoples: ‘This one was born there.’ Selah
Psalm 87:7	And whether they sing or dance, All my thoughts are in Thee.
Psalm 88:1	A Song, a Psalm of the sons of Korah; for the Leader; upon Mahalath Leannoth. Maschil of Heman the Ezrahite. O LORD, God of my salvation, What time I cry in the night before Thee,
Psalm 88:2	Let my prayer come before Thee, Incline Thine ear unto my cry.
Psalm 88:3	For my soul is sated with troubles, And my life draweth nigh unto the grave.
Psalm 88:4	I am counted with them that go down into the pit; I am become as a man that hath no help;
Psalm 88:5	Set apart among the dead, Like the slain that lie in the grave, Whom Thou rememberest no more; And they are cut off from Thy hand.
Psalm 88:6	Thou hast laid me in the nether-most pit, In dark places, in the deeps.
Psalm 88:7	Thy wrath lieth hard upon me, And all Thy waves Thou pressest down. Selah
Psalm 88:8	Thou hast put mine acquaintance far from me; Thou hast made me an abomination unto them; I am shut up, and I cannot come forth.
Psalm 88:9	Mine eye languisheth by reason of affliction; I have called upon Thee, O LORD, every day, I have spread forth my hands unto Thee.
Psalm 88:10	Wilt Thou work wonders for the dead? Or shall the shades arise and give Thee thanks? Selah
Psalm 88:11	Shall Thy mercy be declared in the grave? Or Thy faithfulness in destruction?
Psalm 88:12	Shall Thy wonders be known in the dark? And Thy righteousness in the land of forgetfulness?
Psalm 88:13	But as for me, unto Thee, O LORD, do I cry, And in the morning doth my prayer come to meet Thee.
Psalm 88:14	LORD, why castest Thou off my soul? Why hidest Thou Thy face from me?
Psalm 88:15	I am afflicted and at the point of death from my youth up; I have borne Thy terrors, I am distracted.
Psalm 88:16	Thy fierce wrath is gone over me; Thy terrors have cut me off.
Psalm 88:17	They came round about me like water all the day; They compassed me about together.
Psalm 88:18	Friend and companion hast Thou put far from me, And mine acquaintance into darkness.
Psalm 89:1	Maschil of Ethan the Ezrahite. I will sing of the mercies of the LORD for ever; To all generations will I make known Thy faithfulness with my mouth.
Psalm 89:2	For I have said: ‘For ever is mercy built; In the very heavens Thou dost establish Thy faithfulness.
Psalm 89:3	I have made a covenant with My chosen, I have sworn unto David My servant:
Psalm 89:4	For ever will I establish thy seed, And build up thy throne to all generations.’ Selah
Psalm 89:5	So shall the heavens praise Thy wonders, O LORD, Thy faithfulness also in the assembly of the holy ones.
Psalm 89:6	For who in the skies can be compared unto the LORD, Who among the sons of might can be likened unto the LORD,
Psalm 89:7	A God dreaded in the great council of the holy ones, And feared of all them that are about Him?
Psalm 89:8	O LORD God of hosts, Who is a mighty one, like unto Thee, O LORD? And Thy faithfulness is round about Thee.
Psalm 89:9	Thou rulest the proud swelling of the sea; When the waves thereof arise, Thou stillest them.
Psalm 89:10	Thou didst crush Rahab, as one that is slain; Thou didst scattered Thine enemies with the arm of Thy strength.
Psalm 89:11	Thine are the heavens, Thine also the earth; The world and the fulness thereof, Thou hast founded them.
Psalm 89:12	The north and the south, Thou hast created them; Tabor and Hermon rejoice in Thy name.
Psalm 89:13	Thine is an arm with might; Strong is Thy hand, and exalted is Thy right hand.
Psalm 89:14	Righteousness and justice are the foundation of Thy throne; Mercy and truth go before Thee.
Psalm 89:15	Happy is the people that know the joyful shout; They walk, O LORD, in the light of Thy countenance.
Psalm 89:16	In Thy name do they rejoice all the day; And through Thy righteousness are they exalted.
Psalm 89:17	For Thou art the glory of their strength; And in Thy favour our horn is exalted.
Psalm 89:18	For of the LORD is our shield; And the Holy One of Israel is our king.
Psalm 89:19	Then Thou spokest in vision to Thy godly ones, And saidst: ‘I have laid help upon one that is mighty; I have exalted one chosen out of the people.
Psalm 89:20	I have found David My servant; With My holy oil have I anointed him;
Psalm 89:21	With whom My hand shall be established; Mine arm also shall strengthen him.
Psalm 89:22	The enemy shall not exact from him; Nor the son of wickedness afflict him.
Psalm 89:23	And I will beat to pieces his adversaries before him, And smite them that hate him.
Psalm 89:24	But My faithfulness and My mercy shall be with him; And through My name shall his horn be exalted.
Psalm 89:25	I will set his hand also on the sea, And his right hand on the rivers.
Psalm 89:26	He shall call unto Me: Thou art my Father, My God, and the rock of my salvation.
Psalm 89:27	I also will appoint him first-born, The highest of the kings of the earth.
Psalm 89:28	For ever will I keep for him My mercy, And My covenant shall stand fast with him.
Psalm 89:29	His seed also will I make to endure for ever, And his throne as the days of heaven.
Psalm 89:30	If his children forsake My law, And walk not in Mine ordinances;
Psalm 89:31	If they profane My statutes, And keep not My commandments;
Psalm 89:32	Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, And their iniquity with strokes.
Psalm 89:33	But My mercy will I not break off from him, Nor will I be false to My faithfulness.
Psalm 89:34	My covenant will I not profane, Nor alter that which is gone out of My lips.
Psalm 89:35	Once have I sworn by My holiness: Surely I will not be false unto David;
Psalm 89:36	His seed shall endure for ever, And his throne as the sun before Me.
Psalm 89:37	It shall be established for ever as the moon; And be stedfast as the witness in sky.’ Selah
Psalm 89:38	But Thou hast cast off and rejected, Thou hast been wroth with Thine anointed.
Psalm 89:39	Thou hast abhorred the covenant of Thy servant; Thou hast profaned his crown even to the ground.
Psalm 89:40	Thou hast broken down all his fences; Thou hast brought his strongholds to ruin.
Psalm 89:41	All that pass by the way spoil him; He is become a taunt to his neighbours.
Psalm 89:42	Thou hast exalted the right hand of his adversaries; Thou hast made all his enemies to rejoice.
Psalm 89:43	Yea, Thou turnest back the edge of his sword, And hast not made him to stand in the battle.
Psalm 89:44	Thou hast made his brightness to cease, And cast his throne down to the ground.
Psalm 89:45	The days of his youth hast Thou shortened; Thou hast covered him with shame. Selah
Psalm 89:46	How long, O LORD, wilt Thou hide Thyself for ever? How long shall Thy wrath burn like fire?
Psalm 89:47	O remember how short my time is; For what vanity hast Thou created all the children of men!
Psalm 89:48	What man is he that liveth and shall not see death, That shall deliver his soul from the power of the grave? Selah
Psalm 89:49	Where are Thy former mercies, O Lord, Which Thou didst swear unto David in Thy faithfulness?
Psalm 89:50	Remember, Lord, the taunt of Thy servants; How I do bear in my bosom [the taunt of] so many peoples;
Psalm 89:51	Wherewith Thine enemies have taunted, O LORD, Wherewith they have taunted the footsteps of Thine anointed.
Psalm 89:52	Blessed be the LORD for evermore. Amen, and Amen.
Psalm 90:1	A Prayer of Moses the man of God. Lord, Thou hast been our dwelling-place in all generations.
Psalm 90:2	Before the mountains were brought forth, Or ever Thou hadst formed the earth and the world, Even from everlasting to everlasting, Thou art God.
Psalm 90:3	Thou turnest man to contrition; And sayest: ‘Return, ye children of men.’
Psalm 90:4	For a thousand years in Thy sight Are but as yesterday when it is past, And as a watch in the night.
Psalm 90:5	Thou carriest them away as with a flood; they are as a sleep; In the morning they are like grass which groweth up.
Psalm 90:6	In the morning it flourisheth, and groweth up; In the evening it is cut down, and withereth.
Psalm 90:7	For we are consumed in Thine anger, And by Thy wrath are we hurried away.
Psalm 90:8	Thou hast set our iniquities before Thee, Our secret sins in the light of Thy countenance.
Psalm 90:9	For all our days are passed away in Thy wrath; We bring our years to an end as a tale that is told.
Psalm 90:10	The days of our years are threescore years and ten, Or even by reason of strength fourscore years; Yet is their pride but travail and vanity; For it is speedily gone, and we fly away.
Psalm 90:11	Who knoweth the power of Thine anger, And Thy wrath according to the fear that is due unto Thee?
Psalm 90:12	So teach us to number our days, That we may get us a heart of wisdom.
Psalm 90:13	Return, O LORD; how long? And let it repent Thee concerning Thy servants.
Psalm 90:14	O satisfy us in the morning with Thy mercy; That we may rejoice and be glad all our days.
Psalm 90:15	Make us glad according to the days wherein Thou hast afflicted us, According to the years wherein we have seen evil.
Psalm 90:16	Let Thy work appear unto Thy servants, And Thy glory upon their children.
Psalm 90:17	And let the graciousness of the Lord our God be upon us; Establish Thou also upon us the work of our hands; Yea, the work of our hands establish Thou it.
Psalm 91:1	O thou that dwellest in the covert of the Most High, And abidest in the shadow of the Almighty;
Psalm 91:2	I will say of the LORD, who is my refuge and my fortress, My God, in whom I trust,
Psalm 91:3	That He will deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, And from the noisome pestilence.
Psalm 91:4	He will cover thee with His pinions, And under His wings shalt thou take refuge; His truth is a shield and a buckler.
Psalm 91:5	Thou shalt not be afraid of the terror by night, Nor of the arrow that flieth by day;
Psalm 91:6	Of the pestilence that walketh in darkness, Nor of the destruction that wasteth at noonday.
Psalm 91:7	A thousand may fall at Thy side, And ten thousand at Thy right hand; It shall not come nigh thee.
Psalm 91:8	Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold, And see the recompense of the wicked.
Psalm 91:9	For thou hast made the LORD who is my refuge, Even the Most High, thy habitation.
Psalm 91:10	There shall no evil befall thee, Neither shall any plague come nigh thy tent.
Psalm 91:11	For He will give His angels charge over thee, To keep thee in all thy ways.
Psalm 91:12	They shall bear thee upon their hands, Lest thou dash thy foot against a stone.
Psalm 91:13	Thou shalt tread upon the lion and asp; The young lion and the serpent shalt thou trample under feet.
Psalm 91:14	Because he hath set his love upon Me, therefore will I deliver him; I will set him on high, because he hath known My name.
Psalm 91:15	He shall call upon Me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble; I will rescue him, and bring him to honour.
Psalm 91:16	With long life will I satisfy him, And make Him to behold My salvation.’
Psalm 92:1	A Psalm, a Song. For the sabbath day. It is a good thing to give thanks unto the LORD, And to sing praises unto Thy name, O Most High;
Psalm 92:2	To declare Thy lovingkindness in the morning, And Thy faithfulness in the night seasons,
Psalm 92:3	With an instrument of ten strings, and with the psaltery; With a solemn sound upon the harp.
Psalm 92:4	For Thou, LORD, hast made me glad through Thy work; I will exult in the works of Thy hands.
Psalm 92:5	How great are Thy works, O LORD! Thy thoughts are very deep.
Psalm 92:6	A brutish man knoweth not, Neither doth a fool understand this.
Psalm 92:7	When the wicked spring up as the grass, And when all the workers of iniquity do flourish; It is that they may be destroyed for ever.
Psalm 92:8	But Thou, O LORD, art on high for evermore.
Psalm 92:9	For, lo, Thine enemies, O LORD, For, lo, Thine enemies shall perish: All the workers of iniquity shall be scattered.
Psalm 92:10	But my horn hast Thou exalted like the horn of the wild-ox; I am anointed with rich oil.
Psalm 92:11	Mine eye also hath gazed on them that lie in wait for me, Mine ears have heard my desire of the evil-doers that rise up against me.
Psalm 92:12	The righteous shall flourish like the palm-tree; He shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon.
Psalm 92:13	Planted in the house of the LORD, They shall flourish in the courts of our God.
Psalm 92:14	They shall still bring forth fruit in old age; They shall be full of sap and richness;
Psalm 92:15	To declare that the LORD is upright, My Rock, in whom there is no unrighteousness.
Psalm 93:1	The LORD reigneth; He is clothed in majesty; The LORD is clothed, He hath girded Himself with strength; Yea, the world is established, that it cannot be moved.
Psalm 93:2	Thy throne is established of old; Thou art from everlasting.
Psalm 93:3	The floods have lifted up, O LORD, The floods have lifted up their voice; The floods lift up their roaring.
Psalm 93:4	Above the voices of many waters, The mighty breakers of the sea, The LORD on high is mighty.
Psalm 93:5	Thy testimonies are very sure, Holiness becometh Thy house, O LORD, for evermore.
Psalm 94:1	O LORD, Thou God to whom vengeance belongeth, Thou God to whom vengeance belongeth, shine forth.
Psalm 94:2	Lift up Thyself, Thou Judge of the earth; Render to the proud their recompense.
Psalm 94:3	LORD, how long shall the wicked, How long shall the wicked exult?
Psalm 94:4	They gush out, they speak arrogancy; All the workers of iniquity bear themselves loftily.
Psalm 94:5	They crush Thy people, O LORD, And afflict Thy heritage.
Psalm 94:6	They slay the widow and the stranger, And murder the fatherless.
Psalm 94:7	And they say: ‘The LORD will not see, Neither will the God of Jacob give heed.’
Psalm 94:8	Consider, ye brutish among the people; And ye fools, when will ye understand?
Psalm 94:9	He that planted the ear, shall He not hear? He that formed the eye, shall He not see?
Psalm 94:10	He that instructeth nations, shall not He correct? Even He that teacheth man knowledge?
Psalm 94:11	The LORD knoweth the thoughts of man, That they are vanity.
Psalm 94:12	Happy is the man whom Thou instructest, O LORD, And teachest out of Thy law;
Psalm 94:13	That Thou mayest give him rest from the days of evil, Until the pit be digged for the wicked.
Psalm 94:14	For the LORD will not cast off His people, Neither will He forsake His inheritance.
Psalm 94:15	For right shall return unto justice, And all the upright in heart shall follow it.
Psalm 94:16	Who will rise up for me against the evil-doers? Who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity?
Psalm 94:17	Unless the LORD had been my help, My soul had soon dwelt in silence.
Psalm 94:18	If I say: ‘My foot slippeth’, Thy mercy, O LORD, holdeth me up.
Psalm 94:19	When my cares are many within me, Thy comforts delight my soul.
Psalm 94:20	Shall the seat of wickedness have fellowship with Thee, Which frameth mischief by statute?
Psalm 94:21	They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous, And condemn innocent blood.
Psalm 94:22	But the LORD hath been my high tower, And my God the rock of my refuge.
Psalm 94:23	And He hath brought upon them their own iniquity, And will cut them off in their own evil; The LORD our God will cut them off.
Psalm 95:1	O come, let us sing unto the LORD; Let us shout for joy to the Rock of our salvation.
Psalm 95:2	Let us come before His presence with thanksgiving, Let us shout for joy unto Him with psalms.
Psalm 95:3	For the LORD is a great God, And a great King above all gods;
Psalm 95:4	In whose hand are the depths of the earth; The heights of the mountains are His also.
Psalm 95:5	The sea is His, and He made it; And His hands formed the dry land.
Psalm 95:6	O come, let us bow down and bend the knee; Let us kneel before the LORD our Maker;
Psalm 95:7	For He is our God, And we are the people of His pasture, and the flock of His hand. To-day, if ye would but hearken to His voice!
Psalm 95:8	Harden not your heart, as at Meribah, As in the day of Massah in the wilderness;
Psalm 95:9	When your fathers tried Me, Proved Me, even though they saw My work.
Psalm 95:10	For forty years was I wearied with that generation, And said: It is a people that do err in their heart, And they have not known My ways;
Psalm 95:11	Wherefore I swore in My wrath, That they should not enter into My rest.’
Psalm 96:1	O sing unto the LORD a new song; Sing unto the LORD, all the earth.
Psalm 96:2	Sing unto the LORD, bless His name; Proclaim His salvation from day to day.
Psalm 96:3	Declare His glory among the nations, His marvellous works among all the peoples.
Psalm 96:4	For great is the LORD, and highly to be praised; He is to be feared above all gods.
Psalm 96:5	For all the gods of the peoples are things of nought; But the LORD made the heavens.
Psalm 96:6	Honour and majesty are before Him; Strength and beauty are in His sanctuary.
Psalm 96:7	Ascribe unto the LORD, ye kindreds of the peoples, Ascribe unto the LORD glory and strength.
Psalm 96:8	Ascribe unto the LORD the glory due unto His name; Bring an offering, and come into His courts.
Psalm 96:9	O worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness; Tremble before Him, all the earth.
Psalm 96:10	Say among the nations: ‘The LORD reigneth.’ The world also is established that it cannot be moved; He will judge the peoples with equity.
Psalm 96:11	Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof;
Psalm 96:12	Let the field exult; and all that is therein; Then shall all the trees of the wood sing for joy;
Psalm 96:13	Before the LORD, for He is come; For He is come to judge the earth; He will judge the world with righteousness, And the peoples in His faithfulness.
Psalm 97:1	The LORD reigneth; let the earth rejoice; Let the multitude of isles be glad.
Psalm 97:2	Clouds and darkness are round about Him; Righteousness and justice are the foundation of His throne.
Psalm 97:3	A fire goeth before Him, And burneth up His adversaries round about.
Psalm 97:4	His lightnings lighted up the world; The earth saw, and trembled.
Psalm 97:5	The mountains melted like wax at the presence of the LORD, At the presence of the Lord of the whole earth.
Psalm 97:6	The heavens declared His righteousness, And all the peoples saw His glory.
Psalm 97:7	Ashamed be all they that serve graven images, That boast themselves of things of nought; Bow down to Him, all ye gods.
Psalm 97:8	Zion heard and was glad, And the daughters of Judah rejoiced; Because of Thy judgments, O LORD.
Psalm 97:9	For Thou, LORD, art most high above all the earth; Thou art exalted far above all gods.
Psalm 97:10	O ye that love the LORD, hate evil; He preserveth the souls of His saints; He delivered them out of the hand of the wicked.
Psalm 97:11	Light is sown for the righteous, And gladness for the upright in heart.
Psalm 97:12	Be glad in the LORD, ye righteous; And give thanks to His holy name.
Psalm 98:1	A Psalm. O sing unto the LORD a new song; For He hath done marvellous things; His right hand, and His holy arm, hath wrought salvation for Him.
Psalm 98:2	The LORD hath made known His salvation; His righteousness hath He revealed in the sight of the nations.
Psalm 98:3	He hath remembered His mercy and His faithfulness toward the house of Israel; All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God.
Psalm 98:4	Shout unto the LORD, all the earth; Break forth and sing for joy, yea, sing praises.
Psalm 98:5	Sing praises unto the LORD with the harp; With the harp and the voice of melody.
Psalm 98:6	With trumpets and sound of the horn Shout ye before the King, the LORD.
Psalm 98:7	Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof; The world, and they that dwell therein;
Psalm 98:8	Let the floods clap their hands; Let the mountains sing for joy together;
Psalm 98:9	Before the LORD, for He is come to judge the earth; He will judge the world with righteousness, And the peoples with equity.
Psalm 99:1	The LORD reigneth; let the peoples tremble; He is enthroned upon the cherubim; let the earth quake.
Psalm 99:2	The LORD is great in Zion; And He is high above all the peoples.
Psalm 99:3	Let them praise Thy name as great and awful; Holy is He.
Psalm 99:4	The strength also of the king who loveth justice—Thou hast established equity, Thou hast executed justice and righteousness in Jacob.
Psalm 99:5	Exalt ye the LORD our God, And prostrate yourselves at His footstool; Holy is He.
Psalm 99:6	Moses and Aaron among His priests, And Samuel among them that call upon His name, Did call upon the LORD, and He answered them.
Psalm 99:7	He spoke unto them in the pillar of cloud; They kept His testimonies, and the statute that He gave them.
Psalm 99:8	O LORD our God, Thou didst answer them; A forgiving God wast Thou unto them, Though Thou tookest vengeance of their misdeeds.
Psalm 99:9	Exalt ye the LORD our God, And worship at His holy hill; For the LORD our God is holy.
Psalm 100:1	A Psalm of thanksgiving. Shout unto the LORD, all the earth.
Psalm 100:2	Serve the LORD with gladness; Come before His presence with singing.
Psalm 100:3	Know ye that the LORD He is God; It is He that hath made us, and we are His, His people, and the flock of His pasture.
Psalm 100:4	Enter into His gates with thanksgiving, And into His courts with praise; Give thanks unto Him, and bless His name.
Psalm 100:5	For the LORD is good; His mercy endureth for ever; And His faithfulness unto all generations.
Psalm 101:1	A Psalm of David. I will sing of mercy and justice; Unto Thee, O LORD, will I sing praises.
Psalm 101:2	I will give heed unto the way of integrity; Oh when wilt Thou come unto me? I will walk within my house in the integrity of my heart.
Psalm 101:3	I will set no base thing before mine eyes; I hate the doing of things crooked; it shall not cleave unto me.
Psalm 101:4	A perverse heart shall depart from me; I will know no evil thing.
Psalm 101:5	Whoso slandereth his neighbour in secret, him will I destroy; Whoso is haughty of eye and proud of heart, him will I not suffer.
Psalm 101:6	Mine eyes are upon the faithful of the land, that they may dwell with me; He that walketh in a way of integrity, he shall minister unto me.
Psalm 101:7	He that worketh deceit shall not dwell within my house; He that speaketh falsehood shall not be established before mine eyes.
Psalm 101:8	Morning by morning will I destroy all the wicked of the land; To cut off all the workers of iniquity from the city of the LORD.
Psalm 102:1	A Prayer of the afflicted, when he fainteth, and poureth out his complaint before the LORD. O LORD, hear my prayer, And let my cry come unto Thee.
Psalm 102:2	Hide not Thy face from me in the day of my distress; Incline Thine ear unto me; In the day when I call answer me speedily.
Psalm 102:3	For my days are consumed like smoke, And my bones are burned as a hearth.
Psalm 102:4	My heart is smitten like grass, and withered; For I forget to eat my bread.
Psalm 102:5	By reason of the voice of my sighing My bones cleave to my flesh.
Psalm 102:6	I am like a pelican of the wilderness; I am become as an owl of the waste places.
Psalm 102:7	I watch, and am become Like a sparrow that is alone upon the housetop.
Psalm 102:8	Mine enemies taunt me all the day; They that are mad against me do curse by me.
Psalm 102:9	For I have eaten ashes like bread, And mingled my drink with weeping,
Psalm 102:10	Because of Thine indignation and Thy wrath; For Thou hast taken me up, and cast me away.
Psalm 102:11	My days are like a lengthening shadow; And I am withered like grass.
Psalm 102:12	But Thou, O LORD, sittest enthroned for ever; And Thy name is unto all generations.
Psalm 102:13	Thou wilt arise, and have compassion upon Zion; For it is time to be gracious unto her, for the appointed time is come.
Psalm 102:14	For Thy servants take pleasure in her stones, And love her dust.
Psalm 102:15	So the nations will fear the name of the LORD, And all the kings of the earth Thy glory;
Psalm 102:16	When the LORD hath built up Zion, When He hath appeared in His glory;
Psalm 102:17	When He hath regarded the prayer of the destitute, And hath not despised their prayer.
Psalm 102:18	This shall be written for the generation to come; And a people which shall be created shall praise the LORD.
Psalm 102:19	For He hath looked down from the height of His sanctuary; From heaven did the LORD behold the earth;
Psalm 102:20	To hear the groaning of the prisoner; To loose those that are appointed to death;
Psalm 102:21	That men may tell of the name of the LORD in Zion, And His praise in Jerusalem;
Psalm 102:22	When the peoples are gathered together, And the kingdoms, to serve the LORD.
Psalm 102:23	He weakened my strength in the way; He shortened my days.
Psalm 102:24	I say: ‘O my God, take me not away in the midst of my days, Thou whose years endure throughout all generations.
Psalm 102:25	Of old Thou didst lay the foundation of the earth; And the heavens are the work of Thy hands.
Psalm 102:26	They shall perish, but Thou shalt endure; Yea, all of them shall wax old like a garment; As a vesture shalt Thou change them, and they shall pass away;
Psalm 102:27	But Thou art the selfsame, And Thy years shall have no end.
Psalm 102:28	The children of Thy servants shall dwell securely, And their seed shall be established before Thee.’
Psalm 103:1	[A Psalm] of David. Bless the LORD, O my soul; And all that is within me, bless His holy name.
Psalm 103:2	Bless the LORD, O my soul, And forget not all His benefits;
Psalm 103:3	Who forgiveth all thine iniquity; Who healeth all Thy diseases;
Psalm 103:4	Who redeemeth Thy life from the pit; Who encompasseth thee with lovingkindness and tender mercies;
Psalm 103:5	Who satisfieth thine old age with good things; So that Thy youth is renewed like the eagle.
Psalm 103:6	The LORD executeth righteousness, And acts of justice for all that are oppressed.
Psalm 103:7	He made known His ways unto Moses, His doings unto the children of Israel.
Psalm 103:8	The LORD is full of compassion and gracious, Slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy.
Psalm 103:9	He will not always contend; Neither will He keep His anger for ever.
Psalm 103:10	He hath not dealt with us after our sins, Nor requited us according to our iniquities.
Psalm 103:11	For as the heaven is high above the earth, So great is His mercy toward them that fear Him.
Psalm 103:12	As far as the east is from the west, So far hath He removed our transgressions from us.
Psalm 103:13	Like as a father hath compassion upon his children, So hath the LORD compassion upon them that fear Him.
Psalm 103:14	For He knoweth our frame; He remembereth that we are dust.
Psalm 103:15	As for man, his days are as grass; As a flower of the field, so he flourisheth.
Psalm 103:16	For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone; And the place thereof knoweth it no more.
Psalm 103:17	But the mercy of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear Him, And His righteousness unto children’s children;
Psalm 103:18	To such as keep His covenant, And to those that remember His precepts to do them.
Psalm 103:19	The LORD hath established His throne in the heavens; And His kingdom ruleth over all.
Psalm 103:20	Bless the LORD, ye angels of His, Ye mighty in strength, that fulfil His word, Hearkening unto the voice of His word.
Psalm 103:21	Bless the LORD, all ye His hosts; Ye ministers of His, that do His pleasure.
Psalm 103:22	Bless the LORD, all ye His works, In all places of His dominion; Bless the LORD, O my soul.
Psalm 104:1	Bless the LORD, O my soul. O LORD my God, Thou art very great; Thou art clothed with glory and majesty.
Psalm 104:2	Who coverest Thyself with light as with a garment, Who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain;
Psalm 104:3	Who layest the beams of Thine upper chambers in the waters, Who makest the clouds Thy chariot, Who walkest upon the wings of the wind;
Psalm 104:4	Who makest winds Thy messengers, The flaming fire Thy ministers.
Psalm 104:5	Who didst establish the earth upon its foundations, That it should not be moved for ever and ever;
Psalm 104:6	Thou didst cover it with the deep as with a vesture; The waters stood above the mountains.
Psalm 104:7	At Thy rebuke they fled, At the voice of Thy thunder they hasted away—
Psalm 104:8	The mountains rose, the valleys sank down—Unto the place which Thou hadst founded for them;
Psalm 104:9	Thou didst set a bound which they should not pass over, That they might not return to cover the earth.
Psalm 104:10	Who sendest forth springs into the valleys; They run between the mountains;
Psalm 104:11	They give drink to every beast of the field, The wild asses quench their thirst.
Psalm 104:12	Beside them dwell the fowl of the heaven, From among the branches they sing.
Psalm 104:13	Who waterest the mountains from Thine upper chambers; The earth is full of the fruit of Thy works.
Psalm 104:14	Who causeth the grass to spring up for the cattle, And herb for the service of man; To bring forth bread out of the earth,
Psalm 104:15	And wine that maketh glad the heart of man, Making the face brighter than oil, And bread that stayeth man’s heart.
Psalm 104:16	The trees of the LORD have their fill, The cedars of Lebanon, which He hath planted;
Psalm 104:17	Wherein the birds make their nests; As for the stork, the fir-trees are her house.
Psalm 104:18	The high mountains are for the wild goats; The rocks are a refuge for the conies.
Psalm 104:19	Who appointedst the moon for seasons; The sun knoweth his going down.
Psalm 104:20	Thou makest darkness, and it is night, Wherein all the beasts of the forest do creep forth.
Psalm 104:21	The young lions roar after their prey, And seek their food from God.
Psalm 104:22	The sun ariseth, they slink away, And couch in their dens.
Psalm 104:23	Man goeth forth unto his work And to his labour until the evening.
Psalm 104:24	How manifold are Thy works, O LORD! In wisdom hast Thou made them all; The earth is full of Thy creatures.
Psalm 104:25	Yonder sea, great and wide, Therein are creeping things innumerable, Living creatures, both small and great.
Psalm 104:26	There go the ships; There is leviathan, whom Thou hast formed to sport therein.
Psalm 104:27	All of them wait for Thee, That Thou mayest give them their food in due season.
Psalm 104:28	Thou givest it unto them, they gather it; Thou openest Thy hand, they are satisfied with good.
Psalm 104:29	Thou hidest Thy face, they vanish; Thou withdrawest their breath, they perish, And return to their dust.
Psalm 104:30	Thou sendest forth Thy spirit, they are created; And Thou renewest the face of the earth.
Psalm 104:31	May the glory of the LORD endure for ever; Let the LORD rejoice in His works!
Psalm 104:32	Who looketh on the earth, and it trembleth; He toucheth the mountains, and they smoke.
Psalm 104:33	I will sing unto the LORD as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have any being.
Psalm 104:34	Let my musing be sweet unto Him; As for me, I will rejoice in the LORD.
Psalm 104:35	Let sinners cease out of the earth, And let the wicked be no more. Bless the LORD, O my soul. Hallelujah.
Psalm 105:1	O give thanks unto the LORD, call upon His name; Make known His doings among the peoples.
Psalm 105:2	Sing unto Him, sing praises unto Him; Speak ye of all His marvellous works.
Psalm 105:3	Glory ye in His holy name; Let the heart of them rejoice that seek the LORD.
Psalm 105:4	Seek ye the LORD and His strength; Seek His face continually.
Psalm 105:5	Remember His marvellous works that He hath done, His wonders, and the judgments of His mouth;
Psalm 105:6	O ye seed of Abraham His servant, Ye children of Jacob, His chosen ones.
Psalm 105:7	He is the LORD our God; His judgments are in all the earth.
Psalm 105:8	He hath remembered His covenant for ever, The word which He commanded to a thousand generations;
Psalm 105:9	[The covenant] which He made with Abraham, And His oath unto Isaac;
Psalm 105:10	And He established it unto Jacob for a statute, To Israel for an everlasting covenant;
Psalm 105:11	Saying: ‘Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, The lot of your inheritance.’
Psalm 105:12	When they were but a few men in number. Yea, very few, and sojourners in it,
Psalm 105:13	And when they went about from nation to nation, From one kingdom to another people,
Psalm 105:14	He suffered no man to do them wrong, Yea, for their sake He reproved kings:
Psalm 105:15	Touch not Mine anointed ones, And do My prophets no harm.’
Psalm 105:16	And He called a famine upon the land; He broke the whole staff of bread.
Psalm 105:17	He sent a man before them; Joseph was sold for a servant;
Psalm 105:18	His feet they hurt with fetters, His person was laid in iron;
Psalm 105:19	Until the time that his word came to pass, The word of the LORD tested him.
Psalm 105:20	The king sent and loosed him; Even the ruler of the peoples, and set him free.
Psalm 105:21	He made him lord of his house, And ruler of all his possessions;
Psalm 105:22	To bind his princes at his pleasure, And teach his elders wisdom.
Psalm 105:23	Israel also came into Egypt; And Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham.
Psalm 105:24	And He increased His people greatly, And made them too mighty for their adversaries.
Psalm 105:25	He turned their heart to hate His people, To deal craftily with His servants.
Psalm 105:26	He sent Moses His servant, And Aaron whom He had chosen.
Psalm 105:27	They wrought among them His manifold signs, And wonders in the land of Ham.
Psalm 105:28	He sent darkness, and it was dark; And they rebelled not against His word.
Psalm 105:29	He turned their waters into blood, And slew their fish.
Psalm 105:30	Their land swarmed with frogs, In the chambers of their kings.
Psalm 105:31	He spoke, and there came swarms of flies, And gnats in all their borders.
Psalm 105:32	He gave them hail for rain, And flaming fire in their land.
Psalm 105:33	He smote their vines also and their fig-trees; And broke the trees of their borders.
Psalm 105:34	He spoke, and the locust came, And the canker-worm without number,
Psalm 105:35	And did eat up every herb in their land, And did eat up the fruit of their ground.
Psalm 105:36	He smote also all the first-born in their land, The first-fruits of all their strength.
Psalm 105:37	And He brought them forth with silver and gold; And there was none that stumbled among His tribes.
Psalm 105:38	Egypt was glad when they departed; For the fear of them had fallen upon them.
Psalm 105:39	He spread a cloud for a screen; And fire to give light in the night.
Psalm 105:40	They asked, and He brought quails, And gave them in plenty the bread of heaven.
Psalm 105:41	He opened the rock, and waters gushed out; They ran, a river in the dry places.
Psalm 105:42	For He remembered His holy word Unto Abraham His servant;
Psalm 105:43	And He brought forth His people with joy, His chosen ones with singing.
Psalm 105:44	And He gave them the lands of the nations, And they took the labour of the peoples in possession;
Psalm 105:45	That they might keep His statutes, And observe His laws. Hallelujah.
Psalm 106:1	Hallelujah. O give thanks unto the LORD; for He is good; For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 106:2	Who can express the mighty acts of the LORD, Or make all His praise to be heard?
Psalm 106:3	Happy are they that keep justice, That do righteousness at all times.
Psalm 106:4	Remember me, O LORD, when Thou favourest Thy people; O think of me at Thy salvation;
Psalm 106:5	That I may behold the prosperity of Thy chosen, That I may rejoice in the gladness of Thy nation, That I may glory with Thine inheritance.
Psalm 106:6	We have sinned with our fathers, We have done iniquitously, we have dealt wickedly.
Psalm 106:7	Our fathers in Egypt gave no heed unto Thy wonders; They remembered not the multitude of Thy mercies; But were rebellious at the sea, even at the Red Sea.
Psalm 106:8	Nevertheless He saved them for His name’s sake, That He might make His mighty power to be known.
Psalm 106:9	And He rebuked the Red Sea, and it was dried up; And He led them through the depths, as through a wilderness.
Psalm 106:10	And He saved them from the hand of him that hated them, And redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.
Psalm 106:11	And the waters covered their adversaries; There was not one of them left.
Psalm 106:12	Then believed they His words; They sang His praise.
Psalm 106:13	They soon forgot His works; They waited not for His counsel;
Psalm 106:14	But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, And tried God in the desert.
Psalm 106:15	And He gave them their request; But sent leanness into their soul.
Psalm 106:16	They were jealous also of Moses in the camp, And of Aaron the holy one of the LORD.
Psalm 106:17	The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, And covered the company of Abiram.
Psalm 106:18	And a fire was kindled in their company; The flame burned up the wicked.
Psalm 106:19	They made a calf in Horeb, And worshipped a molten image.
Psalm 106:20	Thus they exchanged their glory For the likeness of an ox that eateth grass.
Psalm 106:21	They forgot God their saviour, Who had done great things in Egypt;
Psalm 106:22	Wondrous works in the land of Ham, Terrible things by the Red Sea.
Psalm 106:23	Therefore He said that He would destroy them, Had not Moses His chosen stood before Him in the breach, To turn back His wrath, lest He should destroy them.
Psalm 106:24	Moreover, they scorned the desirable land, They believed not His word;
Psalm 106:25	And they murmured in their tents, They hearkened not unto the voice of the LORD.
Psalm 106:26	Therefore He swore concerning them, That He would overthrow them in the wilderness;
Psalm 106:27	And that He would cast out their seed among the nations, And scatter them in the lands.
Psalm 106:28	They joined themselves also unto Baal of Peor, And ate the sacrifices of the dead.
Psalm 106:29	Thus they provoked Him with their doings, And the plague broke in upon them.
Psalm 106:30	Then stood up Phinehas, and wrought judgment, And so the plague was stayed.
Psalm 106:31	And that was counted unto him for righteousness, Unto all generations for ever.
Psalm 106:32	They angered Him also at the waters of Meribah, And it went ill with Moses because of them;
Psalm 106:33	For they embittered his spirit, And he spoke rashly with his lips.
Psalm 106:34	They did not destroy the peoples, As the LORD commanded them;
Psalm 106:35	But mingled themselves with the nations, And learned their works;
Psalm 106:36	And they served their idols, Which became a snare unto them;
Psalm 106:37	Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto demons,
Psalm 106:38	And shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, Whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan; And the land was polluted with blood.
Psalm 106:39	Thus were they defiled with their works, And went astray in their doings.
Psalm 106:40	Therefore was the wrath of the LORD kindled against His people, And He abhorred His inheritance.
Psalm 106:41	And He gave them into the hand of the nations; And they that hated them ruled over them.
Psalm 106:42	Their enemies also oppressed them, And they were subdued under their hand.
Psalm 106:43	Many times did He deliver them; But they were rebellious in their counsel, And sank low through their iniquity.
Psalm 106:44	Nevertheless He looked upon their distress, When He heard their cry;
Psalm 106:45	And He remembered for them His covenant, And repented according to the multitude of His mercies.
Psalm 106:46	He made them also to be pitied Of all those that carried them captive.
Psalm 106:47	Save us, O LORD our God, And gather us from among the nations, That we may give thanks unto Thy holy name, That we may triumph in Thy praise.
Psalm 106:48	Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, From everlasting even to everlasting, And let all the people say: ‘Amen.’ Hallelujah.
Psalm 107:1	O give thanks unto the LORD, for He is good, For His mercy endureth for ever.’
Psalm 107:2	So let the redeemed of the LORD say, Whom He hath redeemed from the hand of the adversary;
Psalm 107:3	And gathered them out of the lands, From the east and from the west, From the north and from the sea.
Psalm 107:4	They wandered in the wilderness in a desert way; They found no city of habitation.
Psalm 107:5	Hungry and thirsty, Their soul fainted in them.
Psalm 107:6	Then they cried unto the LORD in their trouble, And He delivered them out of their distresses.
Psalm 107:7	And He led them by a straight way, That they might go to a city of habitation.
Psalm 107:8	Let them give thanks unto the LORD for His mercy, And for His wonderful works to the children of men!
Psalm 107:9	For He hath satisfied the longing soul, And the hungry soul He hath filled with good.
Psalm 107:10	Such as sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, Being bound in affliction and iron—
Psalm 107:11	Because they rebelled against the words of God, And contemned the counsel of the Most High.
Psalm 107:12	Therefore He humbled their heart with travail, They stumbled, and there was none to help—
Psalm 107:13	They cried unto the LORD in their trouble, And He saved them out of their distresses.
Psalm 107:14	He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, And broke their bands in sunder.
Psalm 107:15	Let them give thanks unto the LORD for His mercy, And for His wonderful works to the children of men!
Psalm 107:16	For He hath broken the gates of brass, And cut the bars of iron in sunder.
Psalm 107:17	Crazed because of the way of their transgression, And afflicted because of their iniquities—
Psalm 107:18	Their soul abhorred all manner of food, And they drew near unto the gates of death—
Psalm 107:19	They cried unto the LORD in their trouble, And He saved them out of their distresses;
Psalm 107:20	He sent His word, and healed them, And delivered them from their graves.
Psalm 107:21	Let them give thanks unto the LORD for His mercy, And for His wonderful works to the children of men!
Psalm 107:22	And let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving, And declare His works with singing.
Psalm 107:23	They that go down to the sea in ships, That do business in great waters—
Psalm 107:24	These saw the works of the LORD, And His wonders in the deep;
Psalm 107:25	For He commanded, and raised the stormy wind, Which lifted up the waves thereof;
Psalm 107:26	They mounted up to the heaven, they went down to the deeps; Their soul melted away because of trouble;
Psalm 107:27	They reeled to and fro, and staggered like a drunken man, And all their wisdom was swallowed up—
Psalm 107:28	They cried unto the LORD in their trouble, And He brought them out of their distresses.
Psalm 107:29	He made the storm a calm, So that the waves thereof were still.
Psalm 107:30	Then were they glad because they were quiet, And He led them unto their desired haven.
Psalm 107:31	Let them give thanks unto the LORD for His mercy, And for His wonderful works to the children of men!
Psalm 107:32	Let them exalt Him also in the assembly of the people, And praise Him in the seat of the elders.
Psalm 107:33	He turneth rivers into a wilderness, And watersprings into a thirsty ground;
Psalm 107:34	A fruitful land into a salt waste, For the wickedness of them that dwell therein.
Psalm 107:35	He turneth a wilderness into a pool of water, And a dry land into watersprings.
Psalm 107:36	And there He maketh the hungry to dwell, And they establish a city of habitation;
Psalm 107:37	And sow fields, and plant vineyards, Which yield fruits of increase.
Psalm 107:38	He blesseth them also, so that they are multiplied greatly, And suffereth not their cattle to decrease.
Psalm 107:39	Again, they are minished and dwindle away Through oppression of evil and sorrow.
Psalm 107:40	He poureth contempt upon princes, And causeth them to wander in the waste, where there is no way.
Psalm 107:41	Yet setteth He the needy on high from affliction, And maketh his families like a flock.
Psalm 107:42	The upright see it, and are glad; And all iniquity stoppeth her mouth.
Psalm 107:43	Whoso is wise, let him observe these things, And let them consider the mercies of the LORD.
Psalm 108:1	A Song, a Psalm of David. My heart is steadfast, O God; I will sing, yea, I will sing praises, even with my glory.
Psalm 108:2	Awake, psaltery and harp; I will awake the dawn.
Psalm 108:3	I will give thanks unto Thee, O LORD, among the peoples; And I will sing praises unto Thee among the nations.
Psalm 108:4	For Thy mercy is great above the heavens, And Thy truth reacheth unto the skies.
Psalm 108:5	Be Thou exalted, O God, above the heavens; And Thy glory be above all the earth.
Psalm 108:6	That Thy beloved may be delivered, Save with Thy right hand, and answer me.
Psalm 108:7	God spoke in His holiness, that I would exult; That I would divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth.
Psalm 108:8	Gilead is mine, Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the defence of my head; Judah is my sceptre.
Psalm 108:9	Moab is my washpot; Upon Edom do I cast my shoe; Over Philistia do I cry aloud.
Psalm 108:10	Who will bring me into the fortified city? Who will lead me unto Edom?
Psalm 108:11	Hast not Thou cast us off, O God? And Thou goest not forth, O God, with our hosts?
Psalm 108:12	Give us help against the adversary; For vain is the help of man.
Psalm 108:13	Through God we shall do valiantly; For He it is that will tread down our adversaries.
Psalm 109:1	For the Leader. A Psalm of David. O God of my praise, keep not silence;
Psalm 109:2	For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of deceit have they opened against me; They have spoken unto me with a lying tongue.
Psalm 109:3	They compassed me about also with words of hatred, And fought against me without a cause.
Psalm 109:4	In return for my love they are my adversaries; But I am all prayer.
Psalm 109:5	And they have laid upon me evil for good, And hatred for my love:
Psalm 109:6	Set Thou a wicked man over him; And let an adversary stand at his right hand.
Psalm 109:7	When he is judged, let him go forth condemned; And let his prayer be turned into sin.
Psalm 109:8	Let his days be few; Let another take his charge.
Psalm 109:9	Let his children be fatherless, And his wife a widow.
Psalm 109:10	Let his children be vagabonds, and beg; And let them seek their bread out of their desolate places.
Psalm 109:11	Let the creditor distrain all that he hath; And let strangers make spoil of his labour.
Psalm 109:12	Let there be none to extend kindness unto him; Neither let there be any to be gracious unto his fatherless children.
Psalm 109:13	Let his posterity be cut off; In the generation following let their name be blotted out.
Psalm 109:14	Let the iniquity of his fathers be brought to remembrance unto the LORD; And let not the sin of his mother be blotted out.
Psalm 109:15	Let them be before the LORD continually, That He may cut off the memory of them from the earth.
Psalm 109:16	Because that he remembered not to do kindness, But persecuted the poor and needy man, And the broken in heart he was ready to slay.
Psalm 109:17	Yea, he loved cursing, and it came unto him; And he delighted not in blessing, and it is far from him.
Psalm 109:18	He clothed himself also with cursing as with his raiment, And it is come into his inward parts like water, And like oil into his bones.
Psalm 109:19	Let it be unto him as the garment which he putteth on, And for the girdle wherewith he is girded continually.’
Psalm 109:20	This would mine adversaries effect from the LORD, And they that speak evil against my soul.
Psalm 109:21	But Thou, O GOD the Lord, deal with me for Thy name’s sake; Because Thy mercy is good, deliver Thou me.
Psalm 109:22	For I am poor and needy, And my heart is wounded within me.
Psalm 109:23	I am gone like the shadow when it lengtheneth; I am shaken off as the locust.
Psalm 109:24	My knees totter through fasting; And my flesh is lean, and hath no fatness.
Psalm 109:25	I am become also a taunt unto them; When they see me, they shake their head.
Psalm 109:26	Help me, O LORD my God; O save me according to Thy mercy;
Psalm 109:27	That they may know that this is Thy hand; That Thou, LORD, hast done it.
Psalm 109:28	Let them curse, but bless Thou; When they arise, they shall be put to shame, but Thy servant shall rejoice.
Psalm 109:29	Mine adversaries shall be clothed with confusion, And shall put on their own shame as a robe.
Psalm 109:30	I will give great thanks unto the LORD with my mouth; Yea, I will praise Him among the multitude;
Psalm 109:31	Because He standeth at the right hand of the needy, To save him from them that judge his soul.
Psalm 110:1	A Psalm of David. The LORD saith unto my lord: ‘Sit thou at My right hand, Until I make thine enemies thy footstool.’
Psalm 110:2	The rod of Thy strength the LORD will send out of Zion: ‘Rule thou in the midst of thine enemies.’
Psalm 110:3	Thy people offer themselves willingly in the day of thy warfare; In adornments of holiness, from the womb of the dawn, Thine is the dew of thy youth.
Psalm 110:4	The LORD hath sworn, and will not repent: ‘Thou art a priest for ever After the manner of Melchizedek.’
Psalm 110:5	The Lord at thy right hand Doth crush kings in the day of His wrath.
Psalm 110:6	He will judge among the nations; He filleth it with the dead bodies, He crusheth the head over a wide land.
Psalm 110:7	He will drink of the brook in the way; Therefore will he lift up the head.
Psalm 111:1	Hallelujah. I will give thanks unto the LORD with my whole heart, In the council of the upright, and in the congregation.
Psalm 111:2	The works of the LORD are great, Sought out of all them that have delight therein.
Psalm 111:3	His work is glory and majesty; And His righteousness endureth for ever.
Psalm 111:4	He hath made a memorial for His wonderful works; The LORD is gracious and full of compassion.
Psalm 111:5	He hath given food unto them that fear Him; He will ever be mindful of His covenant.
Psalm 111:6	He hath declared to His people the power of His works, In giving them the heritage of the nations.
Psalm 111:7	The works of His hands are truth and justice; All His precepts are sure.
Psalm 111:8	They are established for ever and ever, They are done in truth and uprightness.
Psalm 111:9	He hath sent redemption unto His people; He hath commanded His covenant for ever; Holy and awful is His name.
Psalm 111:10	The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom; A good understanding have all they that do thereafter; His praise endureth for ever.
Psalm 112:1	Hallelujah. Happy is the man that feareth the LORD, That delighteth greatly in His commandments.
Psalm 112:2	His seed shall be mighty upon earth; The generation of the upright shall be blessed.
Psalm 112:3	Wealth and riches are in his house; And his merit endureth for ever.
Psalm 112:4	Unto the upright He shineth as a light in the darkness, Gracious, and full of compassion, and righteous.
Psalm 112:5	Well is it with the man that dealeth graciously and lendeth, That ordereth his affairs rightfully.
Psalm 112:6	For he shall never be moved; The righteous shall be had in everlasting remembrance.
Psalm 112:7	He shall not be afraid of evil tidings; His heart is stedfast, trusting in the LORD.
Psalm 112:8	His heart is established, he shall not be afraid, Until he gaze upon his adversaries.
Psalm 112:9	He hath scattered abroad, he hath given to the needy; His righteousness endureth for ever; His horn shall be exalted in honour.
Psalm 112:10	The wicked shall see it, and be vexed; He shall gnash with his teeth, and melt away; The desire of the wicked shall perish.
Psalm 113:1	Hallelujah. Praise, O ye servants of the LORD, Praise the name of the LORD.
Psalm 113:2	Blessed be the name of the LORD From this time forth and for ever.
Psalm 113:3	From the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof The LORD’s name is to be praised.
Psalm 113:4	The LORD is high above all nations, His glory is above the heavens.
Psalm 113:5	Who is like unto the LORD our God, That is enthroned on high,
Psalm 113:6	That looketh down low Upon heaven and upon the earth?
Psalm 113:7	Who raiseth up the poor out of the dust, And lifteth up the needy out of the dunghill;
Psalm 113:8	That He may set him with princes, Even with the princes of His people.
Psalm 113:9	Who maketh the barren woman to dwell in her house As a joyful mother of children. Hallelujah.
Psalm 114:1	When Israel came forth out of Egypt, The house of Jacob from a people of strange language;
Psalm 114:2	Judah became His sanctuary, Israel His dominion.
Psalm 114:3	The sea saw it, and fled; The Jordan turned backward.
Psalm 114:4	The mountains skipped like rams, The hills like young sheep.
Psalm 114:5	What aileth thee, O thou sea, that thou fleest? Thou Jordan, that thou turnest backward?
Psalm 114:6	Ye mountains, that ye skip like rams; Ye hills, like young sheep?
Psalm 114:7	Tremble, thou earth, at the presence of the Lord, At the presence of the God of Jacob;
Psalm 114:8	Who turned the rock into a pool of water, The flint into a fountain of waters.
Psalm 115:1	Not unto us, O LORD, not unto us, But unto Thy name give glory, For Thy mercy, and for Thy truth’s sake.
Psalm 115:2	Wherefore should the nations say: ‘Where is now their God?’
Psalm 115:3	But our God is in the heavens; Whatsoever pleased Him He hath done.
Psalm 115:4	Their idols are silver and gold, The work of men’s hands.
Psalm 115:5	They have mouths, but they speak not; Eyes have they, but they see not;
Psalm 115:6	They have ears, but they hear not; Noses have they, but they smell not;
Psalm 115:7	They have hands, but they handle not; Feet have they, but they walk not; Neither speak they with their throat.
Psalm 115:8	They that make them shall be like unto them; Yea, every one that trusteth in them.
Psalm 115:9	O Israel, trust thou in the LORD! He is their help and their shield!
Psalm 115:10	O house of Aaron, trust ye in the LORD! He is their help and their shield!
Psalm 115:11	Ye that fear the LORD, trust in the LORD! He is their help and their shield.
Psalm 115:12	The LORD hath been mindful of us, He will bless—He will bless the house of Israel; He will bless the house of Aaron.
Psalm 115:13	He will bless them that fear the LORD, Both small and great.
Psalm 115:14	The LORD increase you more and more, You and your children.
Psalm 115:15	Blessed be ye of the LORD Who made heaven and earth.
Psalm 115:16	The heavens are the heavens of the LORD; But the earth hath He given to the children of men.
Psalm 115:17	The dead praise not the LORD, Neither any that go down into silence;
Psalm 115:18	But we will bless the LORD From this time forth and for ever. Hallelujah.
Psalm 116:1	I love that the LORD should hear My voice and my supplications.
Psalm 116:2	Because He hath inclined His ear unto me, Therefore will I call upon Him all my days.
Psalm 116:3	The cords of death compassed me, And the straits of the nether-world got hold upon me; I found trouble and sorrow.
Psalm 116:4	But I called upon the name of the LORD: ‘I beseech thee, O LORD, deliver my soul.’
Psalm 116:5	Gracious is the LORD, and righteous; Yea, our God is compassionate.
Psalm 116:6	The LORD preserveth the simple; I was brought low, and He saved me.
Psalm 116:7	Return, O my soul, unto Thy rest; For the LORD hath dealt bountifully with thee.
Psalm 116:8	For thou hast delivered my soul from death, Mine eyes from tears, And my feet from stumbling.
Psalm 116:9	I shall walk before the LORD In the lands of the living.
Psalm 116:10	I trusted even when I spoke: ‘I am greatly afflicted.’
Psalm 116:11	I said in my haste: ‘All men are liars.’
Psalm 116:12	How can I repay unto the LORD All His bountiful dealings toward me?
Psalm 116:13	I will lift up the cup of salvation, And call upon the name of the LORD.
Psalm 116:14	My vows will I pay unto the LORD, Yea, in the presence of all His people.
Psalm 116:15	Precious in the sight of the LORD Is the death of His saints.
Psalm 116:16	I beseech Thee, O LORD, for I am Thy servant; I am Thy servant, the son of Thy handmaid; Thou hast loosed my bands.
Psalm 116:17	I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving, And will call upon the name of the LORD.
Psalm 116:18	I will pay my vows unto the LORD, Yea, in the presence of all His people;
Psalm 116:19	In the courts of the LORD’S house, In the midst of thee, O Jerusalem. Hallelujah.
Psalm 117:1	O praise the LORD, all ye nations; Laud Him, all ye peoples.
Psalm 117:2	For His mercy is great toward us; And the truth of the LORD endureth for ever. Hallelujah.
Psalm 118:1	O give thanks unto the LORD, for He is good, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 118:2	So let Israel now say, For His mercy endureth for ever,
Psalm 118:3	So let the house of Aaron now say, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 118:4	So let them now that fear the LORD say, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 118:5	Out of my straits I called upon the LORD; He answered me with great enlargement.
Psalm 118:6	The LORD is for me; I will not fear; What can man do unto me?
Psalm 118:7	The LORD is for me as my helper; And I shall gaze upon them that hate me.
Psalm 118:8	It is better to take refuge in the LORD Than to trust in man.
Psalm 118:9	It is better to take refuge in the LORD Than to trust in princes.
Psalm 118:10	All nations compass me about; Verily, in the name of the LORD I will cut them off.
Psalm 118:11	They compass me about, yea, they compass me about; Verily, in the name of the LORD I will cut them off.
Psalm 118:12	They compass me about like bees; They are quenched as the fire of thorns; Verily, in the name of the LORD I will cut them off.
Psalm 118:13	Thou didst thrust sore at me that I might fall; But the LORD helped me.
Psalm 118:14	The LORD is my strength and song; And He is become my salvation.
Psalm 118:15	The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous; The right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly.
Psalm 118:16	The right hand of the LORD is exalted; The right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly.
Psalm 118:17	I shall not die, but live, And declare the works of the LORD.
Psalm 118:18	The LORD hath chastened me sore; But He hath not given me over unto death.
Psalm 118:19	Open to me the gates of righteousness; I will enter into them, I will give thanks unto the LORD.
Psalm 118:20	This is the gate of the LORD; The righteous shall enter into it.
Psalm 118:21	I will give thanks unto Thee, for Thou hast answered me, And art become my salvation.
Psalm 118:22	The stone which the builders rejected Is become the chief corner-stone.
Psalm 118:23	This is the LORD’S doing; It is marvellous in our eyes.
Psalm 118:24	This is the day which the LORD hath made; We will rejoice and be glad in it.
Psalm 118:25	We beseech Thee, O LORD, save now! We beseech Thee, O LORD, make us now to prosper!
Psalm 118:26	Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the LORD; We bless you out of the house of the LORD.
Psalm 118:27	The LORD is God, and hath given us light; Order the festival procession with boughs, even unto the horns of the altar.
Psalm 118:28	Thou art my God, and I will give thanks unto Thee; Thou art my God, I will exalt Thee.
Psalm 118:29	O give thanks unto the LORD, for He is good, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 119:1	Happy are they that are upright in the way, Who walk in the law of the LORD.
Psalm 119:2	Happy are they that keep His testimonies, That seek Him with the whole heart.
Psalm 119:3	Yea, they do no unrighteousness; They walk in His ways.
Psalm 119:4	Thou hast ordained Thy precepts, That we should observe them diligently.
Psalm 119:5	Oh that my ways were directed To observe Thy statutes!
Psalm 119:6	Then should I not be ashamed, When I have regard unto all Thy commandments.
Psalm 119:7	I will give thanks unto Thee with uprightness of heart, When I learn Thy righteous ordinances.
Psalm 119:8	I will observe Thy statutes; O forsake me not utterly.
Psalm 119:9	Wherewithal shall a young man keep his way pure? By taking heed thereto according to Thy word.
Psalm 119:10	With my whole heart have I sought Thee; O let me not err from Thy commandments.
Psalm 119:11	Thy word have I laid up in my heart, That I might not sin against Thee.
Psalm 119:12	Blessed art Thou, O LORD; Teach me Thy statutes.
Psalm 119:13	With my lips have I told All the ordinances of Thy mouth.
Psalm 119:14	I have rejoiced in the way of Thy testimonies, As much as in all riches.
Psalm 119:15	I will meditate in Thy precepts, And have respect unto Thy ways.
Psalm 119:16	I will delight myself in Thy statutes; I will not forget Thy word.
Psalm 119:17	Deal bountifully with Thy servant that I may live, And I will observe Thy word.
Psalm 119:18	Open Thou mine eyes, that I may behold Wondrous things out of Thy law.
Psalm 119:19	I am a sojourner in the earth; Hide not Thy commandments from me.
Psalm 119:20	My soul breaketh for the longing That it hath unto Thine ordinances at all times.
Psalm 119:21	Thou hast rebuked the proud that are cursed, That do err from Thy commandments.
Psalm 119:22	Take away from me reproach and contempt; For I have kept Thy testimonies.
Psalm 119:23	Even though princes sit and talk against me, Thy servant doth meditate in Thy statutes.
Psalm 119:24	Yea, Thy testimonies are my delight, They are my counsellors.
Psalm 119:25	My soul cleaveth unto the dust; Quicken Thou me according to Thy word.
Psalm 119:26	I told of my ways, and Thou didst answer me; Teach me Thy statutes.
Psalm 119:27	Make me to understand the way of Thy precepts, That I may talk of Thy wondrous works.
Psalm 119:28	My soul melteth away for heaviness; Sustain me according unto Thy word.
Psalm 119:29	Remove from me the way of falsehood; And grant me Thy law graciously.
Psalm 119:30	I have chosen the way of faithfulness; Thine ordinances have I set [before me].
Psalm 119:31	I cleave unto Thy testimonies; O LORD, put me not to shame.
Psalm 119:32	I will run the way of Thy commandments, For Thou dost enlarge my heart.
Psalm 119:33	Teach me, O LORD, the way of Thy statutes; And I will keep it at every step.
Psalm 119:34	Give me understanding, that I keep Thy law And observe it with my whole heart.
Psalm 119:35	Make me to tread in the path of Thy commandments; For therein do I delight.
Psalm 119:36	Incline my heart unto Thy testimonies, And not to covetousness.
Psalm 119:37	Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity, And quicken me in Thy ways.
Psalm 119:38	Confirm Thy word unto Thy servant, Which pertaineth unto the fear of Thee.
Psalm 119:39	Turn away my reproach which I dread; For Thine ordinances are good.
Psalm 119:40	Behold, I have longed after Thy precepts; Quicken me in Thy righteousness.
Psalm 119:41	Let Thy mercies also come unto me, O LORD, Even Thy salvation, according to Thy word;
Psalm 119:42	That I may have an answer for him that taunteth me; For I trust in Thy word.
Psalm 119:43	And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth; For I hope in Thine ordinances;
Psalm 119:44	So shall I observe Thy law continually For ever and ever;
Psalm 119:45	And I will walk at ease, For I have sought Thy precepts;
Psalm 119:46	I will also speak of Thy testimonies before kings, And will not be ashamed.
Psalm 119:47	And I will delight myself in Thy commandments, Which I have loved.
Psalm 119:48	I will lift up my hands also unto Thy commandments, which I have loved; And I will meditate in Thy statutes.
Psalm 119:49	Remember the word unto Thy servant, Because Thou hast made me to hope.
Psalm 119:50	This is my comfort in my affliction, That Thy word hath quickened me.
Psalm 119:51	The proud have had me greatly in derision; Yet have I not turned aside from Thy law.
Psalm 119:52	I have remembered Thine ordinances which are of old, O LORD, And have comforted myself.
Psalm 119:53	Burning indignation hath taken hold upon me, because of the wicked That forsake Thy law.
Psalm 119:54	Thy statutes have been my songs In the house of my pilgrimage.
Psalm 119:55	I have remembered Thy name, O LORD, in the night, And have observed Thy law.
Psalm 119:56	This I have had, That I have kept Thy precepts.
Psalm 119:57	My portion is the LORD, I have said that I would observe Thy words.
Psalm 119:58	I have entreated Thy favour with my whole heart; Be gracious unto me according to Thy word.
Psalm 119:59	I considered my ways, And turned my feet unto Thy testimonies.
Psalm 119:60	I made haste, and delayed not, To observe Thy commandments.
Psalm 119:61	The bands of the wicked have enclosed me; But I have not forgotten Thy law.
Psalm 119:62	At midnight I will rise to give thanks unto Thee Because of Thy righteous ordinances.
Psalm 119:63	I am a companion of all them that fear Thee, And of them that observe Thy precepts.
Psalm 119:64	The earth, O LORD, is full of Thy mercy; Teach me Thy statutes.
Psalm 119:65	Thou hast dealt well with Thy servant, O LORD, according unto Thy word.
Psalm 119:66	Teach me good discernment and knowledge; For I have believed in Thy commandments.
Psalm 119:67	Before I was afflicted, I did err; But now I observe Thy word.
Psalm 119:68	Thou art good, and doest good; Teach me Thy statutes.
Psalm 119:69	The proud have forged a lie against me; But I with my whole heart will keep Thy precepts.
Psalm 119:70	Their heart is gross like fat; But I delight in Thy law.
Psalm 119:71	It is good for me that I have been afflicted, In order that I might learn Thy statutes.
Psalm 119:72	The law of Thy mouth is better unto me Than thousands of gold and silver.
Psalm 119:73	Thy hands have made me and fashioned me; Give me understanding, that I may learn Thy commandments.
Psalm 119:74	They that fear Thee shall see me and be glad, Because I have hope in Thy word.
Psalm 119:75	I know, O LORD, that Thy judgments are righteous, And that in faithfulness Thou hast afflicted me.
Psalm 119:76	Let, I pray Thee, Thy lovingkindness be ready to comfort me, According to Thy promise unto Thy servant.
Psalm 119:77	Let Thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live; For Thy law is my delight.
Psalm 119:78	Let the proud be put to shame, for they have distorted my cause with falsehood; But I will meditate in Thy precepts.
Psalm 119:79	Let those that fear Thee return unto me, And they that know Thy testimonies.
Psalm 119:80	Let my heart be undivided in Thy statutes, In order that I may not be put to shame.
Psalm 119:81	My soul pineth for Thy salvation; In Thy word do I hope.
Psalm 119:82	Mine eyes fail for Thy word, Saying: ‘When wilt Thou comfort me?’
Psalm 119:83	For I am become like a wine-skin in the smoke; Yet do I not forget Thy statutes.
Psalm 119:84	How many are the days of Thy servant? When wilt Thou execute judgment on them that persecute me?
Psalm 119:85	The proud have digged pits for me, Which is not according to Thy law.
Psalm 119:86	All Thy commandments are faithful; They persecute me for nought; help Thou me.
Psalm 119:87	They had almost consumed me upon earth; But as for me, I forsook not Thy precepts.
Psalm 119:88	Quicken me after Thy lovingkindness, And I will observe the testimony of Thy mouth.
Psalm 119:89	For ever, O LORD, Thy word standeth fast in heaven.
Psalm 119:90	Thy faithfulness is unto all generations; Thou hast established the earth, and it standeth.
Psalm 119:91	They stand this day according to Thine ordinances; For all things are Thy servants.
Psalm 119:92	Unless Thy law had been my delight, I should then have perished in mine affliction.
Psalm 119:93	I will never forget Thy precepts; For with them Thou hast quickened me.
Psalm 119:94	I am Thine, save me; For I have sought Thy precepts.
Psalm 119:95	The wicked have waited for me to destroy me; But I will consider Thy testimonies.
Psalm 119:96	I have seen an end to every purpose; But Thy commandment is exceeding broad.
Psalm 119:97	O how love I Thy law! It is my meditation all the day.
Psalm 119:98	Thy commandments make me wiser than mine enemies: For they are ever with me.
Psalm 119:99	I have more understanding than all my teachers; For Thy testimonies are my meditation.
Psalm 119:100	I understand more than mine elders, Because I have keep Thy precepts.
Psalm 119:101	I have refrained my feet from every evil way, In order that I might observe Thy word.
Psalm 119:102	I have not turned aside from Thine ordinances; For Thou hast instructed me.
Psalm 119:103	How sweet are Thy words unto my palate! Yea, sweeter than honey to my mouth!
Psalm 119:104	From Thy precepts I get understanding; Therefore I hate every false way.
Psalm 119:105	Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, And a light unto my path.
Psalm 119:106	I have sworn, and have confirmed it, To observe Thy righteous ordinances.
Psalm 119:107	I am afflicted very much; Quicken me, O LORD, according unto Thy word.
Psalm 119:108	Accept, I beseech Thee, the freewill-offerings of my mouth, O LORD, And teach me Thine ordinances.
Psalm 119:109	My soul is continually in my hand; Yet have I not forgotten Thy law.
Psalm 119:110	The wicked have laid a snare for me; Yet went I not astray from Thy precepts.
Psalm 119:111	Thy testimonies have I taken as a heritage for ever; For they are the rejoicing of my heart.
Psalm 119:112	I have inclined my heart to perform Thy statutes, For ever, at every step.
Psalm 119:113	I hate them that are of a double mind; But Thy law do I love.
Psalm 119:114	Thou art my covert and my shield; In Thy word do I hope.
Psalm 119:115	Depart from me, ye evildoers; That I may keep the commandments of my God.
Psalm 119:116	Uphold me according unto Thy word, that I may live; And put me not to shame in my hope.
Psalm 119:117	Support Thou me, and I shall be saved; And I will occupy myself with Thy statutes continually.
Psalm 119:118	Thou hast made light of all them that err from Thy statutes; For their deceit is vain.
Psalm 119:119	Thou puttest away all the wicked of the earth like dross; Therefore I love Thy testimonies.
Psalm 119:120	My flesh shuddereth for fear of Thee; And I am afraid of Thy judgments.
Psalm 119:121	I have done justice and righteousness; Leave me not to mine oppressors.
Psalm 119:122	Be surety for Thy servant for good; Let not the proud oppress me.
Psalm 119:123	Mine eyes fail for Thy salvation, And for Thy righteous word.
Psalm 119:124	Deal with Thy servant according unto Thy mercy, And teach me Thy statutes.
Psalm 119:125	I am Thy servant, give me understanding, That I may know Thy testimonies.
Psalm 119:126	It is time for the LORD to work; They have made void Thy law.
Psalm 119:127	Therefore I love Thy commandments Above gold, yea, above fine gold.
Psalm 119:128	Therefore I esteem all [Thy] precepts concerning all things to be right; Every false way I hate.
Psalm 119:129	Thy testimonies are wonderful; Therefore doth my soul keep them.
Psalm 119:130	The opening of Thy words giveth light; It giveth understanding unto the simple.
Psalm 119:131	I opened wide my mouth, and panted; For I longed for Thy commandments.
Psalm 119:132	Turn Thee towards me, and be gracious unto me, As is Thy wont to do unto those that love Thy name.
Psalm 119:133	Order my footsteps by Thy word; And let not any iniquity have dominion over me.
Psalm 119:134	Redeem me from the oppression of man, And I will observe Thy precepts.
Psalm 119:135	Make Thy face to shine upon Thy servant; And teach me Thy statutes.
Psalm 119:136	Mine eyes run down with rivers of water, Because they observe not Thy law.
Psalm 119:137	Righteous art Thou, O LORD, And upright are Thy judgments.
Psalm 119:138	Thou hast commanded Thy testimonies in righteousness And exceeding faithfulness.
Psalm 119:139	My zeal hath undone me, Because mine adversaries have forgotten Thy words.
Psalm 119:140	Thy word is tried to the uttermost, And Thy servant loveth it.
Psalm 119:141	I am small and despised; Yet have I not forgotten Thy precepts.
Psalm 119:142	Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, And Thy law is truth.
Psalm 119:143	Trouble and anguish have overtaken me; Yet Thy commandments are my delight.
Psalm 119:144	Thy testimonies are righteous for ever; Give me understanding, and I shall live.
Psalm 119:145	I have called with my whole heart; answer me, O LORD; I will keep Thy statutes.
Psalm 119:146	I have called Thee, save me, And I will observe Thy testimonies.
Psalm 119:147	I rose early at dawn, and cried; I hoped in Thy word.
Psalm 119:148	Mine eyes forestalled the night-watches, That I might meditate in Thy word.
Psalm 119:149	Hear my voice according unto Thy lovingkindness; Quicken me, O LORD, as Thou art wont.
Psalm 119:150	They draw nigh that follow after wickedness; They are far from Thy law.
Psalm 119:151	Thou art nigh, O LORD; And all Thy commandments are truth.
Psalm 119:152	Of old have I known from Thy testimonies That Thou hast founded them for ever.
Psalm 119:153	O see mine affliction, and rescue me; For I do not forget Thy law.
Psalm 119:154	Plead Thou my cause, and redeem me; Quicken me according to Thy word.
Psalm 119:155	Salvation is far from the wicked; For they seek not Thy statutes.
Psalm 119:156	Great are Thy compassions, O LORD; Quicken me as Thou art wont.
Psalm 119:157	Many are my persecutors and mine adversaries; Yet have I not turned aside from Thy testimonies.
Psalm 119:158	I beheld them that were faithless, and strove with them; Because they observed not Thy word.
Psalm 119:159	O see how I love Thy precepts; Quicken me, O LORD, according to Thy lovingkindness.
Psalm 119:160	The beginning of Thy word is truth; And all Thy righteous ordinance endureth for ever.
Psalm 119:161	Princes have persecuted me without a cause; But my heart standeth in awe of Thy words.
Psalm 119:162	I rejoice at Thy word, As one that findeth great spoil.
Psalm 119:163	I hate and abhor falsehood; Thy law do I love.
Psalm 119:164	Seven times a day do I praise Thee, Because of Thy righteous ordinances.
Psalm 119:165	Great peace have they that love Thy law; And there is no stumbling for them.
Psalm 119:166	I have hoped for Thy salvation, O LORD, And have done Thy commandments.
Psalm 119:167	My soul hath observed Thy testimonies; And I love them exceedingly.
Psalm 119:168	I have observed Thy precepts and Thy testimonies; For all my ways are before Thee.
Psalm 119:169	Let my cry come near before Thee, O LORD; Give me understanding according to Thy word.
Psalm 119:170	Let my supplication come before Thee; Deliver me according to Thy word.
Psalm 119:171	Let my lips utter praise: Because Thou teachest me Thy statutes.
Psalm 119:172	Let my tongue sing of Thy word; For all Thy commandments are righteousness.
Psalm 119:173	Let Thy hand be ready to help me; For I have chosen Thy precepts.
Psalm 119:174	I have longed for Thy salvation, O LORD; And Thy law is my delight.
Psalm 119:175	Let my soul live, and it shall praise Thee; And let Thine ordinances help me.
Psalm 119:176	I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek Thy servant; For I have not forgotten Thy commandments.
Psalm 120:1	A Song of Ascents. In my distress I called unto the LORD, And He answered me.
Psalm 120:2	O LORD, deliver my soul from lying lips, From a deceitful tongue.
Psalm 120:3	What shall be given unto thee, and what shall be done more unto thee, Thou deceitful tongue?
Psalm 120:4	Sharp arrows of the mighty, With coals of broom.
Psalm 120:5	Woe is me, that I sojourn with Meshech, That I dwell beside the tents of Kedar!
Psalm 120:6	My soul hath full long had her dwelling With him that hateth peace.
Psalm 120:7	I am all peace; But when I speak, they are for war.
Psalm 121:1	A Song of Ascents. I will lift up mine eyes unto the mountains: From whence shall my help come?
Psalm 121:2	My help cometh from the LORD, Who made heaven and earth.
Psalm 121:3	He will not suffer thy foot to be moved; He that keepeth thee will not slumber.
Psalm 121:4	Behold, He that keepeth Israel Doth neither slumber nor sleep.
Psalm 121:5	The LORD is thy keeper; The LORD is thy shade upon thy right hand.
Psalm 121:6	The sun shall not smite thee by day, Nor the moon by night.
Psalm 121:7	The LORD shall keep thee from all evil; He shall keep thy soul.
Psalm 121:8	The LORD shall guard thy going out and thy coming in, From this time forth and for ever.
Psalm 122:1	A Song of Ascents; of David. I rejoiced when they said unto me: ‘Let us go unto the house of the LORD.’
Psalm 122:2	Our feet are standing Within thy gates, O Jerusalem;
Psalm 122:3	Jerusalem, that art builded As a city that is compact together;
Psalm 122:4	Whither the tribes went up, even the tribes of the LORD, As a testimony unto Israel, To give thanks unto the name of the LORD.
Psalm 122:5	For there were set thrones for judgment, The thrones of the house of David.
Psalm 122:6	Pray for the peace of Jerusalem; May they prosper that love thee.
Psalm 122:7	Peace be within thy walls, And prosperity within thy palaces.
Psalm 122:8	For my brethren and companions’ sakes, I will now say: ‘Peace be within thee.’
Psalm 122:9	For the sake of the house of the LORD our God I will seek thy good.
Psalm 123:1	A Song of Ascents. Unto Thee I lift up mine eyes, O Thou that art enthroned in the heavens.
Psalm 123:2	Behold, as the eyes of servants unto the hand of their master, As the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress; So our eyes look unto the LORD our God, Until He be gracious unto us.
Psalm 123:3	Be gracious unto us, O LORD, be gracious unto us; For we are full sated with contempt.
Psalm 123:4	Our soul is full sated With the scorning of those that are at ease, And with the contempt of the proud oppressors.
Psalm 124:1	A Song of Ascents; of David. ‘If it had not been the LORD who was for us’, Let Israel now say;
Psalm 124:2	If it had not been the LORD who was for us, When men rose up against us,
Psalm 124:3	Then they had swallowed us up alive, When their wrath was kindled against us;
Psalm 124:4	Then the waters had overwhelmed us, The stream had gone over our soul;
Psalm 124:5	Then the proud waters Had gone over our soul.’
Psalm 124:6	Blessed be the LORD, Who hath not given us as a prey to their teeth.
Psalm 124:7	Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers; The snare is broken, and we are escaped.
Psalm 124:8	Our help is in the name of the LORD, Who made heaven and earth.
Psalm 125:1	A Song of Ascents. They that trust in the LORD Are as mount Zion, which cannot be moved, but abideth for ever.
Psalm 125:2	As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, So the LORD is round about His people, From this time forth and for ever.
Psalm 125:3	For the rod of wickedness shall not rest upon the lot of the righteous; That the righteous put not forth their hands unto iniquity.
Psalm 125:4	Do good, O LORD, unto the good, And to them that are upright in their hearts.
Psalm 125:5	But as for such as turn aside unto their crooked ways, The LORD will lead them away with the workers of iniquity. Peace be upon Israel.
Psalm 126:1	A Song of Ascents. When the LORD brought back those that returned to Zion, We were like unto them that dream.
Psalm 126:2	Then was our mouth filled with laughter, And our tongue with singing; Then said they among the nations: ‘The LORD hath done great things with these.’
Psalm 126:3	The LORD hath done great things with us; We are rejoiced.
Psalm 126:4	Turn our captivity, O LORD, As the streams in the dry land.
Psalm 126:5	They that sow in tears Shall reap in joy.
Psalm 126:6	Though he goeth on his way weeping that beareth the measure of seed, He shall come home with joy, bearing his sheaves.
Psalm 127:1	A Song of Ascents; of Solomon. Except the LORD build the house, They labour in vain that build it; Except the LORD keep the city, The watchman waketh but in vain.
Psalm 127:2	It is vain for you that ye rise early, and sit up late, Ye that eat the bread of toil; So He giveth unto His beloved in sleep.
Psalm 127:3	Lo, children are a heritage of the LORD; The fruit of the womb is a reward.
Psalm 127:4	As arrows in the hand of a mighty man, So are the children of one’s youth.
Psalm 127:5	Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them; They shall not be put to shame, When they speak with their enemies in the gate.
Psalm 128:1	A Song of Ascents. Happy is every one that feareth the LORD, That walketh in His ways.
Psalm 128:2	When thou eatest the labour of thy hands, Happy shalt thou be, and it shall be well with thee.
Psalm 128:3	Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine, in the innermost parts of thy house; Thy children like olive plants, round about thy table.
Psalm 128:4	Behold, surely thus shall the man be blessed That feareth the LORD.
Psalm 128:5	The LORD bless thee out of Zion; And see thou the good of Jerusalem all the days of thy life;
Psalm 128:6	And see thy children’s children. Peace be upon Israel!
Psalm 129:1	A Song of Ascents. ‘Much have they afflicted me from my youth up’, Let Israel now say;
Psalm 129:2	Much have they afflicted me from my youth up; But they have not prevailed against me.
Psalm 129:3	The plowers plowed upon my back; They made long their furrows.
Psalm 129:4	The LORD is righteous; He hath cut asunder the cords of the wicked.’
Psalm 129:5	Let them be ashamed and turned backward, All they that hate Zion.
Psalm 129:6	Let them be as the grass upon the housetops, Which withereth afore it springeth up;
Psalm 129:7	Wherewith the reaper filleth not his hand, Nor he that bindeth sheaves his bosom.
Psalm 129:8	Neither do they that go by say: ‘The blessing of the LORD be upon you; We bless you in the name of the LORD.’
Psalm 130:1	A Song of Ascents. Out of the depths have I called Thee, O LORD.
Psalm 130:2	Lord, hearken unto my voice; Let Thine ears be attentive To the voice of my supplications.
Psalm 130:3	If Thou, LORD, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand?
Psalm 130:4	For with Thee there is forgiveness, That Thou mayest be feared.
Psalm 130:5	I wait for the LORD, my soul doth wait, And in His word do I hope.
Psalm 130:6	My soul waiteth for the Lord, More than watchmen for the morning; Yea, more than watchmen for the morning.
Psalm 130:7	O Israel, hope in the LORD; For with the LORD there is mercy, And with Him is plenteous redemption.
Psalm 130:8	And He will redeem Israel From all his iniquities.
Psalm 131:1	A Song of Ascents; of David. LORD, my heart is not haughty, nor mine eyes lofty; Neither do I exercise myself in things too great, or in things too wonderful for me.
Psalm 131:2	Surely I have stilled and quieted my soul; Like a weaned child with his mother; My soul is with me like a weaned child.
Psalm 131:3	O Israel, hope in the LORD From this time forth and for ever.
Psalm 132:1	A Song of Ascents. LORD, remember unto David All his affliction;
Psalm 132:2	How he swore unto the LORD, And vowed unto the Mighty One of Jacob:
Psalm 132:3	Surely I will not come into the tent of my house, Nor go up into the bed that is spread for me;
Psalm 132:4	I will not give sleep to mine eyes, Nor slumber to mine eyelids;
Psalm 132:5	Until I find out a place for the LORD, A dwelling-place for the Mighty One of Jacob.’
Psalm 132:6	Lo, we heard of it as being in Ephrath; We found it in the field of the wood.
Psalm 132:7	Let us go into His dwelling-place; Let us worship at His footstool.
Psalm 132:8	Arise, O LORD, unto Thy resting-place; Thou, and the ark of Thy strength.
Psalm 132:9	Let Thy priests be clothed with righteousness; And let Thy saints shout for joy.
Psalm 132:10	For Thy servant David’s sake Turn not away the face of Thine anointed.
Psalm 132:11	The LORD swore unto David in truth; He will not turn back from it: ‘Of the fruit of thy body will I set upon thy throne.
Psalm 132:12	If thy children keep My covenant And My testimony that I shall teach them, Their children also for ever shall sit upon thy throne.’
Psalm 132:13	For the LORD hath chosen Zion; He hath desired it for His habitation:
Psalm 132:14	This is My resting-place for ever; Here will I dwell; for I have desired it.
Psalm 132:15	I will abundantly bless her provision; I will give her needy bread in plenty.
Psalm 132:16	Her priests also will I clothe with salvation; And her saints shall shout aloud for joy.
Psalm 132:17	There will I make a horn to shoot up unto David, There have I ordered a lamp for Mine anointed.
Psalm 132:18	His enemies will I clothe with shame; But upon himself shall his crown shine.’
Psalm 133:1	A Song of Ascents; of David. Behold, how good and how pleasant it is For brethren to dwell together in unity!
Psalm 133:2	It is like the precious oil upon the head, Coming down upon the beard; Even Aaron’s beard, That cometh down upon the collar of his garments;
Psalm 133:3	Like the dew of Hermon, That cometh down upon the mountains of Zion; For there the LORD commanded the blessing, Even life for ever.
Psalm 134:1	A Song of Ascents. Behold, bless ye the LORD, all ye servants of the LORD, That stand in the house of the LORD in the night seasons.
Psalm 134:2	Lift up your hands to the sanctuary, And bless ye the LORD.
Psalm 134:3	The LORD bless thee out of Zion; Even He that made heaven and earth.
Psalm 135:1	Hallelujah. Praise ye the name of the LORD; Give praise, O ye servants of the LORD,
Psalm 135:2	Ye that stand in the house of the LORD, In the courts of the house of our God.
Psalm 135:3	Praise ye the LORD, for the LORD is good; Sing praises unto His name, for it is pleasant.
Psalm 135:4	For the LORD hath chosen Jacob unto Himself, And Israel for His own treasure.
Psalm 135:5	For I know that the LORD is great, And that our Lord is above all gods.
Psalm 135:6	Whatsoever the LORD pleased, that hath He done, In heaven and in earth, in the seas and in all deeps;
Psalm 135:7	Who causeth the vapours to ascend from the ends of the earth; He maketh lightnings for the rain; He bringeth forth the wind out of His treasuries.
Psalm 135:8	Who smote the first-born of Egypt, Both of man and beast.
Psalm 135:9	He sent signs and wonders into the midst of thee, O Egypt, Upon Pharaoh, and upon all his servants.
Psalm 135:10	Who smote many nations, And slew mighty kings:
Psalm 135:11	Sihon king of the Amorites, And Og king of Bashan, And all the kingdoms of Canaan;
Psalm 135:12	And gave their land for a heritage, A heritage unto Israel His people.
Psalm 135:13	O LORD, Thy name endureth for ever; Thy memorial, O LORD, throughout all generations.
Psalm 135:14	For the LORD will judge His people, And repent Himself for His servants.
Psalm 135:15	The idols of the nations are silver and gold, The work of men’s hands.
Psalm 135:16	They have mouths, but they speak not; Eyes have they, but they see not;
Psalm 135:17	They have ears, but they hear not; Neither is there any breath in their mouths.
Psalm 135:18	They that make them shall be like unto them; Yea, every one that trusteth in them.
Psalm 135:19	O house of Israel, bless ye the LORD; O house of Aaron, bless ye the LORD;
Psalm 135:20	O house of Levi, bless ye the LORD; Ye that fear the LORD, bless ye the LORD.
Psalm 135:21	Blessed be the LORD out of Zion, Who dwelleth at Jerusalem. Hallelujah.
Psalm 136:1	O give thanks unto the LORD, for He is good, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 136:2	O give thanks unto the God of gods, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 136:3	O give thanks unto the Lord of lords, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 136:4	To Him who alone doeth great wonders, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 136:5	To Him that by understanding made the heavens, for His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 136:6	To Him that spread forth the earth above the waters, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 136:7	To Him that made great lights, For His mercy endureth for ever;
Psalm 136:8	The sun to rule by day, For His mercy endureth for ever;
Psalm 136:9	The moon and stars to rule by night, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 136:10	To Him that smote Egypt in their first-born, For His mercy endureth for ever;
Psalm 136:11	And brought out Israel from among them, For His mercy endureth for ever;
Psalm 136:12	With a strong hand, and with an outstretched arm, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 136:13	To Him who divided the Red Sea in sunder, For His mercy endureth for ever;
Psalm 136:14	And made Israel to pass through the midst of it, For His mercy endureth for ever;
Psalm 136:15	But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 136:16	To Him that led His people through the wilderness, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 136:17	To Him that smote great kings; For His mercy endureth for ever;
Psalm 136:18	And slew mighty kings, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 136:19	Sihon king of the Amorites, For His mercy endureth for ever;
Psalm 136:20	And Og king of Bashan, For His mercy endureth for ever;
Psalm 136:21	And gave their land for a heritage, For His mercy endureth for ever;
Psalm 136:22	Even a heritage unto Israel His servant, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 136:23	Who remembered us in our low estate, For His mercy endureth for ever;
Psalm 136:24	And hath delivered us from our adversaries, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 136:25	Who giveth food to all flesh, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 136:26	O give thanks unto the God of heaven, For His mercy endureth for ever.
Psalm 137:1	By the rivers of Babylon, There we sat down, yea, we wept, When we remembered Zion.
Psalm 137:2	Upon the willows in the midst thereof We hanged up our harps.
Psalm 137:3	For there they that led us captive asked of us words of song, And our tormentors asked of us mirth: ‘Sing us one of the songs of Zion.’
Psalm 137:4	How shall we sing the LORD’S song In a foreign land?
Psalm 137:5	If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, Let my right hand forget her cunning.
Psalm 137:6	Let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth, If I remember thee not; If I set not Jerusalem Above my chiefest joy.
Psalm 137:7	Remember, O LORD, against the children of Edom The day of Jerusalem; Who said: ‘Rase it, rase it, Even to the foundation thereof.’
Psalm 137:8	O daughter of Babylon, that art to be destroyed; Happy shall he be, that repayeth thee As thou hast served us.
Psalm 137:9	Happy shall he be, that taketh and dasheth thy little ones Against the rock.
Psalm 138:1	[A Psalm] of David. I will give Thee thanks with my whole heart, In the presence of the mighty will I sing praises unto Thee.
Psalm 138:2	I will bow down toward Thy holy temple, And give thanks unto Thy name for Thy mercy and for Thy truth; For Thou hast magnified Thy word above all Thy name.
Psalm 138:3	In the day that I called, Thou didst answer me; Thou didst encourage me in my soul with strength.
Psalm 138:4	All the kings of the earth shall give Thee thanks, O LORD, For they have heard the words of Thy mouth.
Psalm 138:5	Yea, they shall sing of the ways of the LORD; For great is the glory of the LORD.
Psalm 138:6	For though the LORD be high, yet regardeth He the lowly, And the haughty He knoweth from afar.
Psalm 138:7	Though I walk in the midst of trouble, Thou quickenest me; Thou stretchest forth Thy hand against the wrath of mine enemies, And Thy right hand doth save me.
Psalm 138:8	The LORD will accomplish that which concerneth me; Thy mercy, O LORD, endureth for ever; Forsake not the work of Thine own hands.
Psalm 139:1	For the Leader. A Psalm of David. O LORD, Thou hast searched me, and known me.
Psalm 139:2	Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising, Thou understandest my thought afar off.
Psalm 139:3	Thou measurest my going about and my lying down, And art acquainted with all my ways.
Psalm 139:4	For there is not a word in my tongue, But, lo, O LORD, Thou knowest it altogether.
Psalm 139:5	Thou hast hemmed me in behind and before, And laid Thy hand upon me.
Psalm 139:6	Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; Too high, I cannot attain unto it.
Psalm 139:7	Whither shall I go from Thy spirit? Or whither shall I flee from Thy presence?
Psalm 139:8	If I ascend up into heaven, Thou art there; If I make my bed in the nether-world, behold, Thou art there.
Psalm 139:9	If I take the wings of the morning, And dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea;
Psalm 139:10	Even there would Thy hand lead me, And Thy right hand would hold me.
Psalm 139:11	And if I say: ‘Surely the darkness shall envelop me, And the light about me shall be night’;
Psalm 139:12	Even the darkness is not too dark for Thee, But the night shineth as the day; The darkness is even as the light.
Psalm 139:13	For Thou hast made my reins; Thou hast knit me together in my mother’s womb.
Psalm 139:14	I will give thanks unto Thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made; Wonderful are Thy works; and that my soul knoweth right well.
Psalm 139:15	My frame was not hidden from Thee, When I was made in secret, And curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth.
Psalm 139:16	Thine eyes did see mine unformed substance, And in Thy book they were all written—Even the days that were fashioned, When as yet there was none of them.
Psalm 139:17	How weighty also are Thy thoughts unto me, O God! How great is the sum of them!
Psalm 139:18	If I would count them, they are more in number than the sand; Were I to come to the end of them, I would still be with Thee.
Psalm 139:19	If Thou but wouldest slay the wicked, O God—Depart from me therefore, ye men of blood;
Psalm 139:20	Who utter Thy name with wicked thought, They take it for falsehood, even Thine enemies—
Psalm 139:21	Do not I hate them, O LORD, that hate Thee? And do not I strive with those that rise up against Thee?
Psalm 139:22	I hate them with utmost hatred; I count them mine enemies.
Psalm 139:23	Search me, O God, and know my heart, Try me, and know my thoughts;
Psalm 139:24	And see if there be any way in me that is grievous, And lead me in the way everlasting.
Psalm 140:1	For the Leader. A Psalm of David. Deliver me, O LORD, from the evil man; Preserve me from the violent man;
Psalm 140:2	Who devise evil things in their heart; Every day do they stir up wars.
Psalm 140:3	They have sharpened their tongue like a serpent; Vipers’ venom is under their lips. Selah
Psalm 140:4	Keep me, O LORD, from the hands of the wicked; Preserve me from the violent man; Who have purposed to make my steps slip.
Psalm 140:5	The proud have hid a snare for me, and cords; They have spread a net by the wayside; They have set gins for me. Selah
Psalm 140:6	I have said unto the LORD: ‘Thou art my God’; Give ear, O LORD, unto the voice of my supplications.
Psalm 140:7	O GOD the Lord, the strength of my salvation, Who hast screened my head in the day of battle,
Psalm 140:8	Grant not, O LORD, the desires of the wicked; Further not his evil device, so that they exalt themselves. Selah
Psalm 140:9	As for the head of those that compass me about, Let the mischief of their own lips cover them.
Psalm 140:10	Let burning coals fall upon them; Let them be cast into the fire, Into deep pits, that they rise not up again.
Psalm 140:11	A slanderer shall not be established in the earth; The violent and evil man shall be hunted with thrust upon thrust.
Psalm 140:12	I know that the LORD will maintain the cause of the poor, And the right of the needy.
Psalm 140:13	Surely the righteous shall give thanks unto Thy name; The upright shall dwell in Thy presence.
Psalm 141:1	A Psalm of David. LORD, I have called Thee; make haste unto me; Give ear unto my voice, when I call unto Thee.
Psalm 141:2	Let my prayer be set forth as incense before Thee, The lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice.
Psalm 141:3	Set a guard, O LORD, to my mouth; Keep watch at the door of my lips.
Psalm 141:4	Incline not my heart to any evil thing, To be occupied in deeds of wickedness With men that work iniquity; And let me not eat of their dainties.
Psalm 141:5	Let the righteous smite me in kindness, and correct me; Oil so choice let not my head refuse; For still is my prayer because of their wickedness.
Psalm 141:6	Their judges are thrown down by the sides of the rock; And they shall hear my words, that they are sweet.
Psalm 141:7	As when one cleaveth and breaketh up the earth, Our bones are scattered at the grave’s mouth.
Psalm 141:8	For mine eyes are unto Thee, O GOD the Lord; In Thee have I taken refuge, O pour not out my soul.
Psalm 141:9	Keep me from the snare which they have laid for me, And from the gins of the workers of iniquity.
Psalm 141:10	Let the wicked fall into their own nets, Whilst I withal escape.
Psalm 142:1	Maschil of David, when he was in the cave; a Prayer. With my voice I cry unto the LORD; With my voice I make supplication unto the LORD.
Psalm 142:2	I pour out my complaint before Him, I declare before Him my trouble;
Psalm 142:3	When my spirit fainteth within me—Thou knowest my path—In the way wherein I walk Have they hidden a snare for me.
Psalm 142:4	Look on my right hand, and see, For there is no man that knoweth me; I have no way to flee; No man careth for my soul.
Psalm 142:5	I have cried unto Thee, O LORD; I have said: ‘Thou art my refuge, My portion in the land of the living.’
Psalm 142:6	Attend unto my cry; For I am brought very low; Deliver me from my persecutors; For they are too strong for me.
Psalm 142:7	Bring my soul out of prison, That I may give thanks unto Thy name; The righteous shall crown themselves because of me; For Thou wilt deal bountifully with me.
Psalm 143:1	A Psalm of David. O LORD, hear my prayer, give ear to my supplications; In Thy faithfulness answer me, and in Thy righteousness.
Psalm 143:2	And enter not into judgment with Thy servant; For in Thy sight shall no man living be justified.
Psalm 143:3	For the enemy hath persecuted my soul; He hath crushed my life down to the ground; He hath made me to dwell in darkness, as those that have been long dead.
Psalm 143:4	And my spirit fainteth within me; My heart within me is appalled.
Psalm 143:5	I remember the days of old; I meditate on all Thy doing; I muse on the work of Thy hands.
Psalm 143:6	I spread forth my hands unto Thee; My soul [thirsteth] after Thee, as a weary land. Selah
Psalm 143:7	Answer me speedily, O LORD, My spirit faileth; Hide not Thy face from me; Lest I become like them that go down into the pit.
Psalm 143:8	Cause me to hear Thy lovingkindness in the morning, For in Thee do I trust; Cause me to know the way wherein I should walk, For unto Thee have I lifted up my soul.
Psalm 143:9	Deliver me from mine enemies, O LORD; With Thee have I hidden myself.
Psalm 143:10	Teach me to do Thy will, For Thou art my God; Let Thy good spirit Lead me in an even land.
Psalm 143:11	For Thy name’s sake, O LORD, quicken me; In Thy righteousness bring my soul out of trouble.
Psalm 143:12	And in Thy mercy cut off mine enemies, And destroy all them that harass my soul; For I am Thy servant.
Psalm 144:1	[A Psalm] of David. Blessed be the LORD my Rock, Who traineth my hands for war, And my fingers for battle;
Psalm 144:2	My lovingkindness, and my fortress, My high tower, and my deliverer; My shield, and He in whom I take refuge; Who subdueth my people under me.
Psalm 144:3	LORD, what is man, that Thou takest knowledge of him? Or the son of man, that Thou makest account of him?
Psalm 144:4	Man is like unto a breath; His days are as a shadow that passeth away.
Psalm 144:5	O LORD, bow Thy heavens, and come down; Touch the mountains, that they may smoke.
Psalm 144:6	Cast forth lightning, and scatter them; Send out Thine arrows, and discomfit them.
Psalm 144:7	Stretch forth Thy hands from on high; Rescue me, and deliver me out of many waters, Out of the hand of strangers;
Psalm 144:8	Whose mouth speaketh falsehood, And their right hand is a right hand of lying.
Psalm 144:9	O God, I will sing a new song unto Thee, Upon a psaltery of ten strings will I sing praises unto Thee;
Psalm 144:10	Who givest salvation unto kings, Who rescuest David Thy servant from the hurtful sword.
Psalm 144:11	Rescue me, and deliver me out of the hand of strangers, Whose mouth speaketh falsehood, And their right hand is a right hand of lying.
Psalm 144:12	We whose sons are as plants grown up in their youth; Whose daughters are as corner-pillars carved after the fashion of a palace;
Psalm 144:13	Whose garners are full, affording all manner of store; Whose sheep increase by thousands and ten thousands in our fields;
Psalm 144:14	Whose oxen are well laden; With no breach, and no going forth, And no outcry in our broad places;
Psalm 144:15	Happy is the people that is in such a case. Yea, happy is the people whose God is the LORD.
Psalm 145:1	[A Psalm of] praise; of David. I will extol Thee, my God, O King; And I will bless Thy name for ever and ever.
Psalm 145:2	Every day will I bless Thee; And I will praise Thy name for ever and ever.
Psalm 145:3	Great is the LORD, and highly to be praised; And His greatness is unsearchable.
Psalm 145:4	One generation shall laud Thy works to another, And shall declare Thy mighty acts.
Psalm 145:5	The glorious splendour of Thy majesty, And Thy wondrous works, will I rehearse.
Psalm 145:6	And men shall speak of the might of Thy tremendous acts; And I will tell of Thy greatness.
Psalm 145:7	They shall utter the fame of Thy great goodness, And shall sing of Thy righteousness.
Psalm 145:8	The LORD is gracious, and full of compassion; Slow to anger, and of great mercy.
Psalm 145:9	The LORD is good to all; And His tender mercies are over all His works.
Psalm 145:10	All Thy works shall praise Thee, O LORD; And Thy saints shall bless Thee.
Psalm 145:11	They shall speak of the glory of Thy kingdom, And talk of Thy might;
Psalm 145:12	To make known to the sons of men His mighty acts, And the glory of the majesty of His kingdom.
Psalm 145:13	Thy kingdom is a kingdom for all ages, And Thy dominion endureth throughout all generations.
Psalm 145:14	The LORD upholdeth all that fall, And raiseth up all those that are bowed down.
Psalm 145:15	The eyes of all wait for Thee, And Thou givest them their food in due season.
Psalm 145:16	Thou openest Thy hand, And satisfiest every living thing with favour.
Psalm 145:17	The LORD is righteous in all His ways, And gracious in all His works.
Psalm 145:18	The LORD is nigh unto all them that call upon Him, To all that call upon Him in truth.
Psalm 145:19	He will fulfil the desire of them that fear Him; He also will hear their cry, and will save them.
Psalm 145:20	The LORD preserveth all them that love Him; But all the wicked will He destroy.
Psalm 145:21	My mouth shall speak the praise of the LORD; And let all flesh bless His holy name for ever and ever.
Psalm 146:1	Hallelujah. Praise the LORD, O my soul.
Psalm 146:2	I will praise the LORD while I live; I will sing praises unto my God while I have my being.
Psalm 146:3	Put not your trust in princes, Nor in the son of man, in whom there is no help.
Psalm 146:4	His breath goeth forth, he returneth to his dust; In that very day his thoughts perish.
Psalm 146:5	Happy is he whose help is the God of Jacob, Whose hope is in the LORD his God,
Psalm 146:6	Who made heaven and earth, The sea, and all that in them is; Who keepeth truth for ever;
Psalm 146:7	Who executeth justice for the oppressed; Who giveth bread to the hungry. The LORD looseth the prisoners;
Psalm 146:8	The LORD openeth the eyes of the blind; The LORD raiseth up them that are bowed down; The LORD loveth the righteous;
Psalm 146:9	The LORD preserveth the strangers; He upholdeth the fatherless and the widow; But the way of the wicked He maketh crooked.
Psalm 146:10	The LORD will reign for ever, Thy God, O Zion, unto all generations. Hallelujah.
Psalm 147:1	Hallelujah; For it is good to sing praises unto our God; For it is pleasant, and praise is comely.
Psalm 147:2	The LORD doth build up Jerusalem, He gathereth together the dispersed of Israel;
Psalm 147:3	Who healeth the broken in heart, And bindeth up their wounds.
Psalm 147:4	He counteth the number of the stars; He giveth them all their names.
Psalm 147:5	Great is our Lord, and mighty in power; His understanding is infinite.
Psalm 147:6	The LORD upholdeth the humble; He bringeth the wicked down to the ground.
Psalm 147:7	Sing unto the LORD with thanksgiving, Sing praises upon the harp unto our God;
Psalm 147:8	Who covereth the heaven with clouds, Who prepareth rain for the earth, Who maketh the mountains to spring with grass.
Psalm 147:9	He giveth to the beast his food, And to the young ravens which cry.
Psalm 147:10	He delighteth not in the strength of the horse; He taketh no pleasure in the legs of a man.
Psalm 147:11	The LORD taketh pleasure in them that fear Him, In those that wait for His mercy.
Psalm 147:12	Glorify the LORD, O Jerusalem; Praise thy God, O Zion.
Psalm 147:13	For He hath made strong the bars of thy gates; He hath blessed thy children within thee.
Psalm 147:14	He maketh thy borders peace; He giveth thee in plenty the fat of wheat.
Psalm 147:15	He sendeth out His commandment upon earth; His word runneth very swiftly.
Psalm 147:16	He giveth snow like wool; He scattereth the hoar-frost like ashes.
Psalm 147:17	He casteth forth His ice like crumbs; Who can stand before His cold?
Psalm 147:18	He sendeth forth His word, and melteth them; He causeth His wind to blow, and the waters flow.
Psalm 147:19	He declareth His word unto Jacob, His statutes and His ordinances unto Israel.
Psalm 147:20	He hath not dealt so with any nation; And as for His ordinances, they have not known them. Hallelujah.
Psalm 148:1	Hallelujah. Praise ye the LORD from the heavens; Praise Him in the heights.
Psalm 148:2	Praise ye Him, all His angels; Praise ye Him, all His hosts.
Psalm 148:3	Praise ye Him, sun and moon; Praise Him, all ye stars of light.
Psalm 148:4	Praise Him, ye heavens of heavens, And ye waters that are above the heavens.
Psalm 148:5	Let them praise the name of the LORD; For He commanded, and they were created.
Psalm 148:6	He hath also established them for ever and ever; He hath made a decree which shall not be transgressed.
Psalm 148:7	Praise the LORD from the earth, Ye sea-monsters, and all deeps;
Psalm 148:8	Fire and hail, snow and vapour, Stormy wind, fulfilling His word;
Psalm 148:9	Mountains and all hills, Fruitful trees and all cedars;
Psalm 148:10	Beasts and all cattle, Creeping things and winged fowl;
Psalm 148:11	Kings of the earth and all peoples, Princes and all judges of the earth;
Psalm 148:12	Both young men and maidens, Old men and children;
Psalm 148:13	Let them praise the name of the LORD, For His name alone is exalted; His glory is above the earth and heaven.
Psalm 148:14	And He hath lifted up a horn for His people, A praise for all His saints, Even for the children of Israel, a people near unto Him. Hallelujah.
Psalm 149:1	Hallelujah. Sing unto the LORD a new song, And His praise in the assembly of the saints.
Psalm 149:2	Let Israel rejoice in his Maker; Let the children of Zion be joyful in their King.
Psalm 149:3	Let them praise His name in the dance; Let them sing praises unto Him with the timbrel and harp.
Psalm 149:4	For the LORD taketh pleasure in His people; He adorneth the humble with salvation.
Psalm 149:5	Let the saints exult in glory; Let them sing for joy upon their beds.
Psalm 149:6	Let the high praises of God be in their mouth, And a two-edged sword in their hand;
Psalm 149:7	To execute vengeance upon the nations, And chastisements upon the peoples;
Psalm 149:8	To bind their kings with chains, And their nobles with fetters of iron;
Psalm 149:9	To execute upon them the judgment written; He is the glory of all His saints. Hallelujah.
Psalm 150:1	Hallelujah. Praise God in His sanctuary; Praise Him in the firmament of His power.
Psalm 150:2	Praise Him for His mighty acts; Praise Him according to His abundant greatness.
Psalm 150:3	Praise Him with the blast of the horn; Praise Him with the psaltery and harp.
Psalm 150:4	Praise Him with the timbrel and dance; Praise Him with stringed instruments and the pipe.
Psalm 150:5	Praise Him with the loud-sounding cymbals; Praise Him with the clanging cymbals.
Psalm 150:6	Let every thing that hath breath praise the LORD. Hallelujah.