1	These are the generations of the sons of Noah: Shem, Ham, and Japheth, and of the sons who were born to them after the great flood.
2	The sons of Japheth were Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
3	And then the sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
4	And the sons of Javan were Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Rodanim.
5	The islands of the Gentiles were divided by these into their regions, each one according to his tongue, and their families in their nations.
6	And the Sons of Ham were Cush, and Mizraim, and Put, and Canaan.
7	And the sons of Cush were Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah were Sheba and Dadan.
8	And then Cush conceived Nimrod; he began to be powerful on the earth.
9	And he was an able hunter before the Lord. From this, a proverb came forth: ‘Just like Nimrod, an able hunter before the Lord.’
10	And so, the beginning of his kingdom was Babylon, and Erech, and Accad, and Chalanne, in the land of Shinar.
11	From that land, Assur came forth, and he built Nineveh, and the streets of the city, and Calah,
12	and also Resen, between Nineveh and Calah. This is a great city.
13	And truly, Mizraim conceived Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, Naphtuhim,
14	and Pathrusim, and Casluhim, from whom came forth the Philistines and the Caphtorim.
15	Then Canaan conceived Sidon his firstborn, the Hittite,
16	and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, the Girgashite,
17	the Hivite, and the Arkite: the Sinite,
18	and the Arvadian, the Samarite, and the Hamathite. And after this, the peoples of the Canaanites became widespread.
19	And the borders of Chanaan went, as one travels, from Sidon to Gerar, even to Gaza, until one enters Sodom and Gomorrah, and from Admah and Zeboiim, even to Lesa.
20	These are the sons of Ham in their kindred, and tongues, and generations, and lands, and nations.
21	Likewise, from Shem, the father of all the sons of Heber, the elder brother of Japheth, sons were born.
22	The sons of Shem were Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram.
23	The sons of Aram were Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.
24	But truly, Arphaxad conceived Shelah, from whom was born Eber.
25	And to Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth became divided, and his brother’s name was Joktan.
26	This Joktan conceived Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, Jerah
27	and Hadoram, and Uzal and Diklah,
28	and Obal and Abimael, Sheba
29	and Ophir, and Havilah and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan.
30	And their habitation extended from Messa, as one sojourns, even to Sephar, a mountain in the east.
31	These are the sons of Shem according to their kindred, and tongues, and the regions within their nations.
32	These are the families of Noah, according to their peoples and nations. The nations became divided according to these, on the earth after the great flood.