1	In truth, Abraham took another wife, named Keturah.
2	And she bore to him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah.
3	Likewise, Jokshan conceived Sheba and Dedan. The sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.
4	And truly, from Midian was born Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah.
5	And Abraham gave everything that he possessed to Isaac.
6	But to the sons of the concubines he gave generous gifts, and he separated them from his son Isaac, while he still lived, toward the eastern region.
7	Now the days of Abraham’s life were one hundred and seventy-five years.
8	And declining, he died in a good old age, and at an advanced stage of life, and full of days. And he was gathered to his people.
9	And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the double cave, which was situated in the field of Ephron, of the son of Zohar the Hittite, across from the region of Mamre,
10	which he had bought from the sons of Heth. There he was buried, with his wife Sarah.
11	And after his passing, God blessed his son Isaac, who lived near the well named ‘of the One who lives and who sees.’
12	These are the generations of Ishmael, the son of Abraham, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah’s servant, bore to him.
13	And these are the names of his sons according to their language and generations. The firstborn of Ishmael was Nebaioth, then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
14	likewise Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa,
15	Hadad, and Tema, and Jetur, and Naphish, and Kedemah.
16	These are the sons of Ishmael. And these are their names throughout their fortresses and towns: the twelve princes of their tribes.
17	And the years of the life of Ishmael that passed were one hundred and thirty-seven. And declining, he died and was placed with his people.
18	Now he had lived from Havilah as far as Shur, which overlooks Egypt as it approaches the Assyrians. He passed away in the sight of all his brothers.
19	Likewise, these are the generations of Isaac, the son of Abraham. Abraham conceived Isaac,
20	who, when he was forty years old, took Rebekah, the sister of Laban, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian from Mesopotamia, as a wife.
21	And Isaac beseeched the Lord on behalf of his wife, because she was barren. And he heard him, and he gave conception to Rebekah.
22	But the little ones struggled in her womb. So she said, “If it was to be so with me, what need was there to conceive?” And she went to consult the Lord.
23	And responding, he said, “Two nations are in your womb, and two peoples will be divided out of your womb, and one people will overcome the other people, and the elder will serve the younger.”
24	Now the time had arrived to give birth, and behold, twins were discovered in her womb.
25	He who departed first was red, and entirely hairy like a pelt; and his name was called Esau. At once the other departed and he held his brother’s foot in his hand; and because of this he was called Jacob.
26	Isaac was sixty years old when the little ones were born to him.
27	And as adults, Esau became a knowledgeable hunter and a man of agriculture, but Jacob, a simple man, dwelt in tents.
28	Isaac was fond of Esau, because he was fed from his hunting; and Rebekah loved Jacob.
29	Then Jacob boiled a small meal. Esau, when he had arrived weary from the field,
30	said to him, “Give me this red stew, for I am very tired.” For this reason, his name was called Edom.
31	Jacob said to him, “Sell me your right of the firstborn.”
32	He answered, “Lo, I am dying, what will the right of the firstborn provide for me?”
33	Jacob said, “So then, swear to me.” Esau swore to him, and he sold his right of the firstborn.
34	And so, taking bread and the food of lentils, he ate, and he drank, and he went away, giving little weight to having sold the right of the firstborn.