1	This is the book of the lineage of Adam. In the day that God created man, he made him to the likeness of God.
2	He created them, male and female; and he blessed them. And he called their name Adam, in the day when they were created.
3	Then Adam lived for one hundred and thirty years. And then he conceived a son in his own image and likeness, and he called his name Seth.
4	And after he conceived Seth, the days of Adam that passed were eight hundred years. And he conceived sons and daughters.
5	And all the time that passed while Adam lived was nine hundred and thirty years, and then he died.
6	Seth likewise lived for one hundred and five years, and then he conceived Enos.
7	And after he conceived Enos, Seth lived for eight hundred and seven years, and he conceived sons and daughters.
8	And all the days of Seth that passed were nine hundred and twelve years, and then he died.
9	In truth, Enos lived ninety years, and then he conceived Cainan.
10	After his birth, he lived eight hundred and fifteen years, and he conceived sons and daughters.
11	And all the days of Enos that passed were nine hundred and five years, and then he died.
12	Likewise, Cainan lived seventy years, and then he conceived Mahalalel.
13	And after he conceived Mahalalel, Cainan lived for eight hundred and forty years, and he conceived sons and daughters.
14	And all the days of Cainan that passed were nine hundred and ten years, and then he died.
15	And Mahalalel lived sixty-five years, and then he conceived Jared.
16	And after he conceived Jared, Mahalalel lived for eight hundred and thirty years, and he conceived sons and daughters.
17	And all the days of Mahalalel that passed were eight hundred and ninety-five years, and then he died.
18	And Jared lived for one hundred and sixty-two years, and then he conceived Enoch.
19	And after he conceived Enoch, Jared lived for eight hundred years, and he conceived sons and daughters.
20	And all the days of Jared that passed were nine hundred and sixty-two years, and then he died.
21	Now Enoch lived for sixty-five years, and then he conceived Methuselah.
22	And Enoch walked with God. And after he conceived Methuselah, he lived for three hundred years, and he conceived sons and daughters.
23	And all the days of Enoch that passed were three hundred and sixty-five years.
24	And he walked with God, and then he was seen no more, because God took him.
25	Likewise, Methuselah lived for one hundred and eighty-seven years, and then he conceived Lamech.
26	And after he conceived Lamech, Methuselah lived for seven hundred and eighty-two years, and he conceived sons and daughters.
27	And all the days of Methuselah that passed were nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and then he died.
28	Then Lamech lived for one hundred and eighty-two years, and he conceived a son.
29	And he called his name Noah, saying, “This one will console us from the works and hardships of our hands, in the land that the Lord has cursed.”
30	And after he conceived Noah, Lamech lived for five hundred and ninety-five years, and he conceived sons and daughters.
31	And all the days of Lamech that passed were seven hundred and seventy-seven years, and then he died.
32	In truth, when Noah was five hundred years old, he conceived Shem, Ham, and Japheth.