1	And to Ahab seventy sons in Shomeron. And Jehu will write letters and send to Shomeron to the chiefs of Jezreel, the old men, and to Ahab’s nourishers, saying,
2	And now when this letter comes to you, and with you your lord’s sons, and with you chariots and horses, and a fortified city, and weapons;
3	And see the good and the straight of your lord’s sons, and set upon the throne of his father, and war for the house of your lord.
4	And they will fear greatly, greatly, and say, Behold, two kings stood not before him, and how shall we stand.
5	And he over the house will send, and he over the city, and the old men, and the nourishers, to Jehu saying, We thy servants, and all which thou shalt say to us we will do; we will not make a man king: do thou the good in thine eyes.
6	And he will write to them a second letter, saying, If ye are for me and ye hear to my voice, take the heads of the men your lord’s sons, and come to me according to the time to-morrow, to Jezreel. (And the king’s sons seventy men with the great of the city growing up with them.)
7	And it will be when the letter came to them, and they will take the sons of the king and slaughter seventy men, and put their heads in baskets, and send to him to Jezreel.
8	And a messenger will come and announce to him, saying, They brought the heads of the king’s sons. And he will say, Put them two heaps at the door of the gate till the morning.
9	And it will be in the morning, and he will go forth and stand and say to all the people, Ye are just: behold, I conspired against my lord, and I will kill him: and who struck all these?
10	Know now that nothing shall fall from the word of Jehovah to the earth which Jehovah spake concerning the house of Ahab: for Jehovah did what he spake by the hand of his servant Elijah.
11	And Jehu will strike all those being left to the house of Ahab in Jezreel, and all his great, and all his acquaintance, and his priests, till he left to him nothing escaping.
12	And he will rise and come, and go to Shomeron. He in the house of binding of the shepherds in the way.
13	And Jehu found the brethren of Ahaziah king of Judah, and he will say, Who are ye? and they will say, We the brethren of Ahaziah; and we shall go down for the peace of the sons of the king and the sons of power.
14	And he will say, Seize them living. And they will seize them living, and they will slaughter them at the pit of the house of binding, forty and two men; and he left not a man of them.
15	And he will go from thence and find Jehonadab son of Rechab at his meeting: and he will bless him, and say to him, Is thy heart straight, as my heart with thy heart? and Jehonadab will say. It is. And it is, give me thy hand. And he will give his hand; and he will bring him up to him in the chariot.
16	And he will say, Come with me, and see in my being zealous to Jehovah. And they caused him to ride with him in his chariot.
17	And he will come to Shomeron, and he will strike all those remaining to Ahab in Shomeron till the destroying him according to the word of Jehovah which he spake to Elijah.
18	And Jehu will gather together all the people, and say to them, Ahab served Baal a little; Jehu will serve him much.
19	And now all the prophets of Baal, all his servants and all his priests, call ye to me: a man shall not be missing: for a great sacrifice to me for Baal; every one who shall be missing shall not live. And Jehu did in fraud, in order to destroy the servants of Baal.
20	And Jehu will say, Consecrate an assembly to Baal, and they will call.
21	And Jehu will send in all Israel: and all the servants of Baal will come, and there was not a man left who came not. And they will come to the house of Baal, and the house of Baal will be filled, mouth to mouth.
22	And he will say to him over the vestry, Bring forth garments for all the servants of Baal. And he will bring forth to them garments.
23	And Jehu will come, and Jehonadab son of Rechab, to the house of Baal, and he Will say to the servants of Baal, Search and see, lest there is here with you of the servants of Jehovah, but the servants of Baal only.
24	And they will go in to do sacrifices and burnt-offerings, and Jehu set to him without, eighty men; and he will say, The man who shall escape from these men which I bring upon your hands, his soul instead of his soul.
25	And it will be when they finished doing the burnt-offering, and Jehu will say to the runners and to the third rulers, Go in; strike them; a man shall not go forth. And they will strike them with the mouth of the sword and the runners and the thirds will cast out, and they will go even to the city of the house of Baal.
26	And they will bring forth the pillars of the house of Baal, and they will burn them.
27	And they will lay waste the images of Baal, and they will lay waste the house of Baal, and they will set it for a sink even to this day.
28	And Jehu will destroy Baal out of Israel.
29	But the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin, Jehu turned not away from after them, the calves of gold which were in the house of God and which were in Dan.
30	And Jehovah will say to Jehu, Because thou didst good to do the straight in mine eyes, according to all which was in my heart thou didst to the house of Ahab, thy son of the descendants of the fourth generation shall sit to thee upon the throne of Israel.
31	And Jehu watched not to go in the law of Jehovah God of Israel with all his heart: he turned not away from the sins of Jeroboam who caused Israel to sin.
32	In those days Jehovah began to out off in Israel, and Hazael will strike them in all the bound of Israel;
33	From Jordan from the rising of the sun, all the land of Gilead, the Gadites, and the Reubenites, and the Manassites, from Aroer which upon the torrent Arnon, and Gilead and shan.
34	And the remainder of the words of Jehu, and all which he did, and all his strength, are they not written upon the book of the words of the days to the kings of Israel?
35	And Jehu will lie down with his fathers, and they will bury him in Shomeron. And Jehoahaz his son will reign in his stead.
36	And the days which Jehu reigned over Israel twenty and eight years, in Shomeron.