1	In the twentieth year and third year to Joash son of Ahaziah king of Judah, Jehoahaz son of Jehu, reigned over Israel in Shomeron seventeen years.
2	And he will do evil in the eyes of Jehovah, and go after the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin; he turned not away from them.
3	And the anger of Jehovah will kindle against Israel, and he will give them into the hand of Hazael king of Aram, and into the hand of Ben-hadad son of Hazael, all the days.
4	And Jehoahaz will supplicate the face of Jehovah, and Jehovah will hear to him, for he saw the oppression of Israel, for the king of Aram oppressed them.
5	(And Jehovah will give to Israel a saviour, and they will go forth from under the hand of Aram: and the sons of Israel will dwell in their tents as yesterday the third day.
6	But they turned not away from the sins of the house of Jeroboam who caused Israel to sin; he went in it: and also a statue stood in Shomeron.)
7	For he left not to Jehoahaz of the people but fifty horsemen and ten chariots and ten thousand footmen; for the king of Aram destroyed them, and he will set them as dust to trample upon.
8	And the rest of the words of Jehoahaz, and all which he did, and his strength, are they not written upon the book of the words of the days to the kings of Israel?
9	And Jehoahaz will lie down with his fathers; and they will bury him in Shomeron: and Joash his son will reign in his stead.
10	And in the thirtieth year and seventh year to Joash king of Judah, Jehoash son of Jehoahaz will reign over Israel in Shomeron sixteen years.
11	And he will do evil in the eyes of Jehovah he turned not away from all the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin; he went in it.
12	And the rest of the words of Joash, and all which he did, and his powers with which he warred with Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written upon the book of the words of the days to the kings of Israel?
13	And Joash will lie down with his fathers, and Jeroboam will sit upon his throne, and Joash will be buried in Shomeron with the kings of Israel.
14	And Elisha was sick with his sickness which he will die in it. And Joash king of Israel will come down to him and weep over his face, and say, My father! my father the chariot of Israel and its horsemen.
15	And Elisha will say to him, Take a bow and arrows. And he will take to him a bow and arrows.
16	And he will say to the king of Israel, Cause thine hand to ride upon the bow. And he will cause his hand to ride: and Elisha will put his hands upon the king’s hands.
17	And he will say, Open the window eastward. And he will open. And Elisha will say, Shoot. And he will shoot And he will say, The arrow of salvation to Jehovah; and the arrow of salvation against Aram; and strike thou Aram in Aphek, till finishing.
18	And he will say, Take the arrows. And he will take. And he will say to the king of Israel, Strike the earth. And he will strike three times, and stand.
19	And the man of God will be angry against him, and he will say, To strike five or six times, then thou hadst struck Aram till the finishing: and now three times thou wilt strike Aram.
20	And Elisha will die, and they will bury him. And the troops of Moab will come against the land, the year came in.
21	And it will be they were burying a man, and behold, they saw a troop; and they will cast the man into the tomb of Elisha: and the man will go and touch upon the bones of Elisha, and he will live and rise upon his feet.
22	And Hazael king of Aram pressed Israel all the days of Jehoahaz.
23	And Jehovah will compassionate them, and he will pity them, and he will turn to them on account of his covenant with Abraham, Isaak, and Jacob; and he would not destroy them, and he cast them not from his face even till now.
24	And Hazael king of Aram will die; and Benhadad his son will reign in his stead.
25	And Jehoash son of Jehoahaz will turn back and take the cities out of the hand of Benhadad, son of Hazael, which he took out of the hand of Jehoahaz his father, in war. Three times Joash struck him, and he will turn back the cities of Israel.