1	And it will be in the third year to Hoshea son of Elah, king of Israel, reigned Hezekiah son of Ahaz, king of Judah.
2	The son of twenty and five years, was he in his reigning; and twenty and, nine years reigned he in Jerusalem and his mothers name Abi, the daughter of Zachariah.
3	And he will do the straight in the eyes of Jehovah, according to all which, David his father did.
4	He removed the heights, and he brake in pieces the statues, and he cut off the image, and he beat down the serpent of brass which Moses made: for till those days the sons of Israel were burning incense to it and they called it brass.
5	And he trusted in Jehovah the God of Israel; and after him was not like him among all the kings of Judah, and who were before him.
6	And he will cleave upon Jehovah he turned not away from after him, and he will watch his commands which Jehovah commanded Moses.
7	And Jehovah was with him: in all which he will go forth he will prosper; and he will rebel against the king of Assur, and not serve him.
8	He struck the rovers even to Azzah, and her bounds from the tower of those watching to the fortified city.
9	And it will be in the fourth year to king Hezekiah, this the seventh year to Hoshea son of Elah, king of Israel, Shalmaneser, king of Assur, came up against Shomeron and pressed, upon it.
10	And he will take it from the end of three years: in the sixth year to Hezekiah, this the ninth year to Hoshea, king of Israel, Shomeron was taken.
11	And the king of Assur will carry Israel into exile to Assur, and put them in Halah and Habor, the river of Gihon, and the cities of the Medes:
12	Because they heard not to the voice of Jehovah their God, and they will pass by his covenant, all which Moses commanded, the servant of Jehovah, and they heard not and did not.
13	And in the fourteenth year to Hezekiah, Senherib, king of Assur, came up against all the fortified cities of Judah, and he will seize them.
14	And Hezekiah king of Judah will send to the king of Assur to Lachish, saying, I sinned; turn back from me: what thou givest upon me I will bear. And the king of Assur will put upon Hezekiah three hundred talents of silver, and thirty talents of gold.
15	And Hezekiah will give all the silver found in the house of Jehovah, and in the treasures of the king’s house.
16	In that time Hezekiah broke off the doors of the temple of Jehovah, and the supporters which Hezekiah king of Judah overlaid, and he will give them to the king of Assur.
17	And the king of Assur will send Tartan, Rab-Saris, and Rabshakeh from Lachish to king Hezekiah, with weighty strength to Jerusalem; and they will go up and come to Jerusalem: and they will go up and come and stand by the aqueduct of the highest pool in the highway of the field of the fuller.
18	And they will call for the king, and there will go forth to them Eliakim, son of Hilkiah, who was over the house, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah son of Asaph reminding.
19	And Rabshakeh will say to them, Say now to Hezekiah, Thus said the great king, the king of Assur, What this confidence in which thou trustedst?
20	Thou saidst (but a word of the lips) Counsel and strength for war Now upon whom didst thou trust that thou rebelledst against me?
21	Now behold, thou trustedst to thyself, upon the stay of this broken reed, upon Egypt, which a man shall lean upon it and it will go into his hand and bore it; thus Pharaoh king of Egypt to all trusting upon him.
22	And if ye shall say to me, We trusted to Jehovah our God: is it not he of whom Hezekiah turned away his heights and his altars, and he will say to Judah and to Jerusalem, Ye shall worship before this altar in Jerusalem?
23	And now become surety to my lord the king of Assur, and I will give to thee two thousand horses if thou shalt be able to give to thyself riders upon them.
24	And how wilt thou turn back the face of one prefect of my lord’s servants of the least, and wilt thou trust to thyself upon Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?
25	Now came I up without Jehovah upon this place to destroy it? Jehovah said to me, Go up against this land and destroy it.
26	And Eliakim son of Hilkiah, will say, and Shebna, and Joah, to Rabshakeh, Speak now to thy servants in Syriac; for we hear: and thou shalt not speak with us in Judaic in the ears of the people who are upon the wall.
27	And Rabshakeh will say to them, To thy lord and to thee did my lord send me to speak these words? is it not to the men sitting upon the wall to eat their dung and to drink their piss with you?
28	And Rabshakeh will stand and call with a great voice in Judaic, and speak and say, Hear ye the words of the great king, the king of Assur:
29	Thus said the king, Hezekiah shall not be lifted up to you: for he shall not be able to deliver you from my hand:
30	And Hezekiah shall cause you to trust to Jehovah, saying, Delivering, Jehovah will deliver us, and this same city shall not be given into the hand of the king of Assur.
31	Ye shall not hear to Hezekiah: for thus said the king of Assur, Make me a gift, and come forth to me, and eat ye a man his vine and a man his fig tree, and drink ye a man water of his well,
32	Till my coming and I took you to a land as your land, a land of grain and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards, a land of olive oil and honey; and live ye, and ye shall not die: and ye shall not hear to Hezekiah, for he will seduce you, saying, Jehovah will deliver us.
33	Delivering, did the gods of the nations deliver each his hand out of the hand of the king of Assur?
34	Where the gods of Hamath and Arpad? where the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivah? for did they deliver Shomemn out of my hand?
35	Who of all the gods of the lands who delivered their land out of my hand, that Jehovah shall deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?
36	And the people were silent and answered him not a word: for it was the command of the king, saying, Ye shall not answer.
37	And there came Eliakim, son of Hilkiah, who was over the house, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah son of Asaph reminding, to Hezekiah, their garments rent; and they will announce to him the words of Rabshakeh.