1	In his days came up Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babel, and Jehoiakim will be to him a servant three years: and he will turn back and rebel against him.
2	And Jehovah will send against him troops of Chaldeans and troops of Aram, and troops of Moab, and troops of the sons of Ammon, and he will send them against Judah to destroy it, according to the word of Jehovah which he spake by the hand of his servants the prophets.
3	But at the mouth of Jehovah it was upon Judah to turn away from his face through the sins of Manasseh, according to all which he did.
4	And also the innocent blood which he poured forth, (and he will fill Jerusalem with innocent blood) and Jehovah would not pardon.
5	And the rest of the words of Jehoiakim, and all that he did, are they not written upon the book of the words of the days to the kings of Judah?
6	And Jehoiakim will lie down with his fathers, and Jehoiachin his son will reign in his stead.
7	And the king of Egypt added no more to come forth from his land, for the king of Babel took from the torrent of Egypt, even to the river Phrath, all which was to the king of Egypt.
8	The son of eighteen years was Jehoiachin in his reigning, and three months he reigned in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name Nehushta, daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem.
9	And he will do evil in the eyes of Jehovah according to all which his father did.
10	In that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babel, came up to Jerusalem, and the city will come into siege.
11	And Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babel, will come against the city and his servants were pressing upon it.
12	And Jehoiachin king of Judah will go forth upon the king of Babel, he and his mother, and his servants, and his chiefs, and his eunuchs: and the king of Babel will take him in the eighth year to his reigning.
13	And he will bring forth from thence all the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and the treasures of the king’s house, and he will cut off all the vessels of gold which Solomon king of Israel made in the temple of Jehovah, according to the word of Jehovah.
14	And he carried into exile all Jerusalem, and all the chiefs, and all the mighty of strength, ten thousand exiles, and all the artificers, and the smiths: there was not left except the powerless of the people of the land.
15	And he will carry Jehoiachin into exile into Babel, and the king’s mother, and the king’s wives and his eunuchs and the powerful of the land, he brought away exiles from Jerusalem into Babel.
16	And all the men of strength, seven thousand and the artificers, and the smiths, a thousand, all strong, making war; and the king of Babel will bring them into exile into Babel.
17	And the king of Babel will make Mattaniah his uncle, king in his stead; and he will turn his name to Zedekiah.
18	The son of twenty and one years was Zedekiah in his reigning, and eleven years he reigned in Jerusalem. And his mothers name Hamutal, daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
19	And he will do evil in the eyes of Jehovah according to all which Jehoiakim did.
20	For upon the wrath of Jehovah it was in Jerusalem and in Judah, till he cast them from his face, and Zedekiah will rebel against the king of Babel.