1	And Elisha the prophet called to one of the sons of the prophets, and he will say to him, Gird thy loins, and take this flask of oil in thy hand, and go to Ramoth-Gilead.
2	And go there and see there Jehu son of Jehoshaphat, son of Nimshi, and go and cause him to rise from the midst of his brethren, and bring him to a chamber in a chamber;
3	And take the flask of oil and pour upon his head, and say, Thus said Jehovah I anointed thee for king to Israel And open the door and flee, and thou shalt not wait.
4	And the boy will go, the boy the prophet, to Ramoth-Gilead.
5	And he will go in, and behold, the captains of the army sitting; and he will say, A word to me for thee the chief. And Jehu will say, To which of all of us? And he will say, To thee the chief.
6	And he will rise and go into the house, and he will pour the oil upon his head, and say to him, Thus said Jehovah the God of Israel, I anointed thee for king to the people, of Jehovah to Israel.
7	And smite thou the house of Ahab thy lord, and I avenged the bloods of my servants the prophets, and the bloods of all the servants of Jehovah from the hand of Jezebel.
8	And all the house of Ahab shall perish: and I out off to Ahab him pissing against the wall, and him shut up and left in Israel.
9	And I gave the house of Ahab as the house of Jeroboam son of Nebat, and as the house of Bassha son of Ahijah.
10	And Jezebel shall the dogs eat in a part of Jezreel, and none to bury. And he will open the door and flee.
11	And Jehu will go forth to the servants of his lord: and it will be said to him, Peace? wherefore came this raving to thee? And he will say, to them, Ye knew the man and his speech.
12	And they will say, A falsehood; announce to us now And he will say, According to this, and according to this he said to me, saying, Thus said Jehovah, I anointed thee for king to Israel.
13	And they will hasten and take a man his garment, and will put under him to the body of the steps, and they will strike upon the trumpet and say, Jehu reigned.
14	And Jehu son of Jehoshaphat son of Nimshi will conspire against Joram. (And Joram watched in Ramoth-Gilead, he and all Israel, from the face of Hazael king of Aram.
15	And Jehoram the king turned back to be healed in Jezreel from the blows which the Aramites struck him in his warring with Hazael king of Aram.) And Jehu will say, If it is your soul, none escaping, shall go forth from the city to go to announce in Jezreel.
16	And Jehu will ride and go to Jezreel; for Joram lay there. And Ahaziah king of Judah went down to see Joram.
17	And he watching stood upon the tower in Jezreel, and he will see the multitude of Jehu in his coming, and he will say, I see a multitude. And Jehoram will say, Take a horseman and send to meet them, and he shall say, Is it peace?
18	And a horseman of the horse will go to meet him, and he will say, Thus said the king, Is it peace? And Jehu will say, What to thee and to peace? turn behind me. And he watching will announce, saying, The messenger went even to them and turned not back.
19	And he will send a second horseman of horse, and he will go to them and say, Thus said the king, Is it peace? and Jehu will say, What to thee and to peace? turn behind me.
20	And he watching will announce, saying, He came even to them and turned not back: and the driving as the driving of Jehu son of Nimshi, for he will drive in madness.
21	And Jehoram will say, Harness. And he will harness his chariot And Jehoram king of Israel will go forth, and Ahaziah king of Judah, a man in his chariot; and they will go forth to meet Jehu, and they will find him in the portion of Naboth the Jezreelite.
22	And it will be when Jehoram saw Jehu, and he will say, Is it peace? and Jehu will say, What the peace, while the fornication of Jezebel thy mother and her sorceries are many?
23	And Jehoram will turn his hands and flee, and say to Ahaziah, Fraud, O Ahaziah.
24	And Jehu filled his hand with a bow, and he will strike Jehoram between his arms, and the arrow will go forth from his heart, and he will bow down in his chariot.
25	And he will say to Bidkar the third, Lift up, cast him in the portion of the field of Naboth the Jezreelite; for I remember I and thou riding in pairs after Ahab his father, and Jehovah lifted up upon him this lifting up.
26	But the bloods of Naboth and the bloods of his sons did I not see yesternight, said Jehovah; and I requited to thee in this portion, said Jehovah. And now lift up, and cast him into the portion according to the word of Jehovah.
27	And Ahaziah king of Judah saw, and he will flee the way of the house of the garden. And Jehu will pursue after him, and he will say, Strike him also to the chariot in the ascent of Gur, which is with Ibleam. And he will flee to Megiddo, and die there.
28	And his servants will cause him to ride to Jerusalem, and they will bury him in his grave with his fathers in the city of David.
29	And in the year, the eleventh year to Joram, son of Ahab, Ahaziah reigned over Judah.
30	And Jehu will come to Jezreel, and Jezebel heard, and she will put her eyes in paint, and do her head good, and she will look through the window.
31	And Jehu came into the gate, and she will say, Was peace to Zimri, killing his lord?
32	And he will lift up his face to the window, and say, Who with me? who? and there will look towards him two, three eunuchs.
33	And he will say, Throw her down. And they will throw her down, and there will be sprinkled of her blood upon the wall and upon the horses: and he will tread her under foot.
34	And he will go in and eat and drink, and he will say, Review now this curse, and bury her, for she the daughter of a king.
35	And they will go to bury her: and they found not of her but the skull and the feet, and the palms of the hands.
36	And they will turn back and announce to him, and he will say, This the word of Jehovah which he spake by the hand of his servant Elijah the Tishbite, saying, In the portion of Jezreel, dogs shall eat the flesh of Jezebel.
37	And the carcass of Jezebel was as dung upon the face of the field in the portion of Jezreel; that they shall not say this is Jezebel.