1	There was a man in the land of Uz named Job, and he was a simple and honest man, fearing God and withdrawing from evil.
2	And there had been born to him seven sons and three daughters.
3	And his possession was seven thousand sheep, and three thousand camels, along with five hundred pairs of oxen and five hundred she-donkeys, and also a very large family. And this man was great among all the people of the east.
4	And his sons went and made a feast by houses, each one on his day. And sending, they called their three sisters to eat and drink with them.
5	And when the days of their feasting had been completed, Job sent to them and sanctified them, and, getting up at dawn, he offered holocausts for each one. For he said, “Perhaps my sons have sinned and have not praised God in their hearts.” So Job did all the days.
6	But on a certain day, when the sons of God came to attend in the presence of the Lord, Satan also arrived among them.
7	The Lord said to him, “Where do you come from?” Answering, he said, “I have circled the land, and walked around in it.”
8	And the Lord said to him, “Have you not considered my servant, Job? For there is no one like him in the land, a simple and honest man, fearing God and withdrawing from evil.”
9	Answering him, Satan said, “Does Job fear God to no purpose?
10	Have you not fortified him, as well as his house and every one of his belongings around him, blessed the works of his hands, and his possession has increased in the land?
11	But extend your hand a little, and touch all that he possesses, and see if he still praises you to your face.”
12	Therefore, the Lord said to Satan, “Behold, everything that he has is in your hand, only do not extend your hand against him.” And Satan departed from the face of the Lord.
13	So, on a certain day, when his sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine, in the house of their first-born brother,
14	a messenger came to Job, who said, “The oxen were plowing, and the donkeys were grazing beside them,
15	and the Sabeans rushed in and carried away everything, and they struck the servants with the sword; and I alone evaded them to tell you.”
16	And while he was still speaking, another arrived, and he said, “The fire of God fell from heaven, and, having struck the sheep and the servants, it consumed them; and I alone escaped to tell you.”
17	And while he also was still speaking, another arrived, and he said, “The Chaldeans organized three attacks, and advanced on the camels and took them; and not only that, but they have struck the servants with the sword; and I alone fled to tell you.”
18	He was still speaking, and behold, another entered, and he said, “Your sons and daughters were feasting and drinking wine in the house of their first-born brother,
19	when suddenly a severe wind rushed forth from a region of the desert and shook the four corners of the house, which collapsed and crushed your children, and they are dead; and I alone escaped to tell you.”
20	Then Job got up and tore his garments, and, having shaved his head, he collapsed on the ground, and worshipped,
21	and he said, “Naked I departed from my mother’s womb, and naked I shall return. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away. Just as it pleased the Lord, so has it been done. Blessed be the name of the Lord.”
22	In all this, Job did not sin by his lips, nor did he speak any foolish thing against God.