1	Then Job, answering, said:
2	Are you, therefore, alone among men, and will wisdom die with you?
3	And I have a heart just as you also do, and I am not inferior to you. For who is ignorant of these things, which you know?
4	He who is mocked by his friends as I am, will call upon God, and he will listen to him because it is the sincerity of the just that is being mocked.
5	The lamp that is despised in the thoughts of the rich is ready for the appointed time.
6	The tabernacles of robbers are numerous, and they provoke God boldly; whereas, it is he who has given all things into their hands.
7	In truth, ask the mules, and they will teach you, and the birds of the sky, and they will reveal to you.
8	Speak with the earth, and it will respond to you, and the fish of the sea will explain.
9	Who is ignorant that the hand of the Lord has made all these things?
10	In his hand is the soul of all the living and the spirit of all the flesh of mankind.
11	Does not the ear perceive words, and the palate, when eating, perceive flavor?
12	In old age is wisdom, and in length of days is prudence.
13	With him is wisdom and strength, he has counsel and understanding.
14	If he tears down, there is no one who can build up; if he encloses a man, there is no one who can open.
15	If he restrains the waters, everything will dry up; and if he sends them forth, they will subdue the land.
16	With him is strength and wisdom; he knows both the deceiver and he who is deceived.
17	He leads advisors to a foolish end and judges to stupidity.
18	He removes the belt of kings and encircles their waist with a rope.
19	He leads away priests in dishonor and displaces nobles,
20	altering the lips of those who speak the truth and sweeping away the teaching of the aged.
21	He pours distain upon the leaders, relieving those who had been oppressed.
22	He reveals the depths of the darkness, and he brings the shadow of death into the light.
23	He multiplies peoples, and destroys them, and, having been overthrown, he restores them anew.
24	He transforms the heart of the leaders of the people on earth, and misleads those who in vain advance upon the inviolable.
25	They will grope as in the darkness, not the light, and he will make them stagger like drunkards.