1	Behold, my eye has seen all these things, and my ear has heard, and I have understood each one.
2	In conformity with your knowledge, I also know. I am not inferior to you.
3	Yet I speak this way to the Almighty, and I desire to argue with God,
4	having first shown that you fabricate lies and cultivate perverse teachings.
5	And I wish that you would remain silent, so that you would be counted among the wise.
6	Therefore, listen to my correction, and pay attention to the judgment of my lips.
7	Does God require your lie, so that you would speak deceitfully for him?
8	Have you taken his place, and do you struggle to give judgment in favor of God?
9	Or, will it please him, from whom nothing can be concealed? Or, will he be deceived, like a man, by your deceitfulness?
10	He will accuse you because in secret you have preempted his presence.
11	As soon as he moves himself, he will disturb you, and his dread will fall over you.
12	Your remembrance will be compared to ashes, and your necks will be reduced to clay.
13	Be silent for a little while, so that I may speak whatever my mind suggests to me.
14	Why do I wound my flesh with my teeth, and carry my soul in my hands?
15	And now, if he would kill me, I will hope in him; in this, truly, I will correct my ways in his sight.
16	And he will be my savior, for no hypocrite at all will approach in his sight.
17	Listen to my words, and perceive an enigma with your ears.
18	If I will be judged, I know that I will be found to be just.
19	Who is it that will go to judgment with me? Let him approach. Why should I be consumed in silence?
20	Do not do such things to me twice, and then I will not hide from your face.
21	Take your hand far away from me, and do not let your dread terrify me.
22	Call me, and I will answer you, or else I will speak, and you can answer me.
23	How many iniquities and sins do I have? Reveal my crimes and offenses to me.
24	Why do you conceal your face and consider me to be your enemy?
25	Against a leaf, which is carried away by the wind, you reveal your power, and you pursue dry straw.
26	For you write bitter things against me, and you want to consume me for the sins of my youth.
27	You have put my feet on a tether, and you have observed all my paths, and you have considered the steps of my feet.
28	I will be left to decay like something rotten and like a garment that is being eaten by moths.