1	But Eliphaz the Themanite, answering, said:
2	Will a wise man answer as if he were speaking wind, and will he fill his stomach with fire?
3	You rebuke with words he who is not equal to you, and you speak what is not expedient for you,
4	to such an extent that, within yourself, you have expelled reverence and have taken away prayers from the presence of God.
5	For your iniquity has mislead your mouth, and you imitate the tongue of blasphemers.
6	Your own mouth will condemn you, not I; and your own lips will answer you.
7	Are you the first man who was born, or were you formed before the hills?
8	Have you heard the intentions of God, and will his wisdom be inferior to you?
9	What do you know, about which we are ignorant? What do you understand that we do not know?
10	There are with us both aged and ancient men, even more senior than your fathers.
11	Is it so important that God should console you? But your own depraved words prevent this.
12	Why does your heart exalt you, and why do you gaze with your eyes, as if thinking great things?
13	Why does your spirit stir against God, so as to utter such speeches from your mouth?
14	What is man that he should be immaculate, and that he should appear just, having been born of woman?
15	Behold, among his holy ones not one is immutable, and even the heavens are not pure in his sight.
16	How much more abominable and useless is the man who drinks as if from the water of iniquity?
17	I will reveal to you, so listen to me; and I will explain to you what I have seen.
18	The wise acknowledge, and they do not leave behind, their fathers,
19	to whom alone the earth has been given, and no stranger passed among them.
20	The impious is arrogant for all his days, and the number of the years of his tyranny is uncertain.
21	The sound of terror is always in his ears; and when there is peace, he always suspects treason.
22	He does not believe that it is possible for him to be turned from darkness into the light, for he sees around him the sword on every side.
23	When he moves himself to seek bread, he knows that the day of darkness has been prepared for his hand.
24	Tribulation will terrify him, and anguish will prevail over him, like a king who is being prepared to go to battle.
25	For he has extended his hand against God, and he has strengthened himself against the Almighty.
26	He has rushed against him with his throat exposed, and he has been armed with a fat neck.
27	Thickness has covered his face, and lard hangs down from his sides.
28	He has lived in desolate cities and deserted houses, which have been turned into tombs.
29	He will not be enriched, nor will his basic necessities endure, nor will he establish his root in the earth.
30	He will not withdraw from the darkness; the flame will burn up his branches, and he will be defeated by the breath of his own mouth.
31	He will not believe, being vainly deceived by error, that he could be redeemed at any price.
32	Before his time is completed, he will pass into ruin and his hands will wither away.
33	He will be wounded like a grapevine, when its cluster is in first flower, and like an olive tree that casts off its flower.
34	For the congregation of the hypocrites is fruitless, and fire will devour the tabernacles of those who love to accept money.
35	He has conceived sorrow, and he has brought forth iniquity, and his womb prepares deceit.