1	Then Job responded by saying:
2	I beseech you to hear my words and to do penance.
3	Permit me, and I will speak, and afterwards, if you see fit, you can laugh at my words.
4	Is my dispute against man, so that I would have no reason to be discouraged?
5	Listen to me and be astonished, and place a finger over your mouth.
6	As for me, when I think it over, I am afraid, and trembling convulses my body.
7	Why then do the impious live, having been lifted up and strengthened with riches?
8	They see their offspring continue before them: a commotion of close relatives and of children’s children in their sight.
9	Their houses have been secure and peaceable, and there is no staff of God over them.
10	Their cattle have conceived and have not miscarried; their cow has given birth and is not deprived of her newborn.
11	Their little ones go out like a flock, and their children jump around playfully.
12	They take up the timbrel and the lyre, and they rejoice at the sound of the organ.
13	Their days are prolonged in wealth, yet, in an instant, they descend into hell.
14	Who has said to God, “Depart from us, for we do not want the knowledge of your ways.
15	Who is the Almighty that we should serve him? And how is it helpful to us if we pray to him?”
16	It is true that their good things are not in their power. May the counsel of the impious be far from me!
17	How often will the lamp of the wicked be extinguished, and a deluge overtake them, and how often will he distribute the afflictions of his wrath?
18	They will be like chaff before the face of the wind, and like ashes that the whirlwind scatters.
19	God will preserve the grief of the father for his sons, and, when he repays, then he will understand.
20	His eyes will see his own destruction, and he will drink from the wrath of the Almighty.
21	For what does he care what happens to his house after him, or if the number of its months are reduced by half?
22	Can anyone teach holy knowledge to God, who judges the exalted?
23	This one dies strong and healthy, rich and happy.
24	His gut is full of fat and his bones are moistened with marrow.
25	In truth, another dies in bitterness of soul, without any resources.
26	And yet they will sleep together in the dust, and worms will cover them.
27	Surely, I know your thoughts and your sinful judgments against me.
28	For you say, “Where is the house of the ruler, and where are the tabernacles of the impious?”
29	Ask any passerby whom you wish, and you will realize that he understands these same things:
30	that the evil-doer is reserved for the day of destruction, and he will be led to the day of wrath.
31	Who will reprove his way to his face, and who will repay him for what he has done?
32	He will be led to the tomb, and he will remain awake in the chaos of the dead.
33	He has been found acceptable to the banks of the River of Lamentation, and he will draw any man towards him, and there are countless before him.
34	Therefore, how long will you console me in vain, when your answer is shown to be repugnant to truth?