1	Can you draw out the leviathan with a hook, and can you bind his tongue with a cord?
2	Can you place a ring in his nose, or bore through his jaw with an arm band?
3	Will he offer many prayers to you, or speak to you quietly?
4	Will he form a covenant with you, and will you accept him as a servant forever?
5	Will you play with him as with a bird, or tether him for your handmaids?
6	Will your friends cut him into pieces, will dealers distribute him?
7	Will you fill up bags with his hide, and let his head be used as a home for fishes?
8	Place your hand upon him; remember the battle and speak no more.
9	Behold, his hope will fail him, and in the sight of all, he will be thrown down.
10	I will not rouse him, as the cruel would do, for who is able to withstand my countenance?
11	Who has given to me beforehand, so that I should repay him? All things that are under heaven are mine.
12	I will not spare him, nor his powerful words and counterfeit attempts at supplication.
13	Who can reveal the beauty of his garment? And who can enter the middle of his mouth?
14	Who can open the doors of his face? I gave fear to the circle of his teeth.
15	His body is like shields fused together, like dense scales pressed over one another.
16	One is joined to another, and not even air can pass between them.
17	They adhere to one another, and they hold themselves in place and will not be separated.
18	His sneezing has the brilliance of fire, and his eyes are like the eyelids of the morning.
19	Lamps proceed from his mouth, like torches of fire burning brightly.
20	Smoke passes out of his nostrils, like a pot that is heated and boiling.
21	His breath causes coal to burn, and a flame comes forth from his mouth.
22	Strength dwells in his neck, and destitution goes before his presence.
23	The parts of his body work in harmony together. He will send lightning bolts against him, and they will not be carried to another place.
24	His heart will be as hard as a stone and as dense as a blacksmith’s anvil.
25	When he will be raised up, the angels will be afraid, and, because they are terrified, they will purify themselves.
26	When a sword catches up with him, it will not be able to settle in, nor a spear, nor a breastplate.
27	For he will consider iron as if it were chaff, and brass as if it were rotten wood.
28	The archer will not cause him to flee; the stones of the sling have been turned into stubble for him.
29	He will treat the hammer as if it were stubble, and he will ridicule those who brandish the spear.
30	The beams of the sun will be under him, and he will dispense gold to them as if it were clay.
31	He will make the depths of the sea boil like a pot, and he will set it to bubble just as ointments do.
32	A path will shine after him; he will esteem the abyss as if it were weakening with age.
33	There is no power on the earth that is being compared to him, who has been made so that he fears no one.
34	He sees every prominent thing; he is king over all the sons of arrogance.