1	I will stand upon my watch, And set me upon the tower, And will look out to see what He will speak by me, And what I shall answer when I am reproved.
2	And the LORD answered me, and said: ‘Write the vision, and make it plain upon tables, That a man may read it swiftly.
3	For the vision is yet for the appointed time, And it declareth of the end, and doth not lie; Though it tarry, wait for it; Because it will surely come, it will not delay.’
4	Behold, his soul is puffed up, it is not upright in him; But the righteous shall live by his faith.
5	Yea, moreover, wine is a treacherous dealer; The haughty man abideth not; He who enlargeth his desire as the nether-world, And is as death, and cannot be satisfied, But gathereth unto him all nations, And heapeth unto him all peoples.
6	Shall not all these take up a parable against him, And a taunting riddle against him, And say: ‘Woe to him that increaseth that which is not his! How long? and that ladeth himself with many pledges!’
7	Shall they not rise up suddenly that shall exact interest of thee, And awake that shall violently shake thee, And thou shalt be for booties unto them?
8	Because thou hast spoiled many nations, All the remnant of the peoples shall spoil thee; Because of men’s blood, and for the violence done to the land, To the city and to all that dwell therein.
9	Woe to him that gaineth evil gains for his house, That he may set his nest on high, That he may be delivered from the power of evil!
10	Thou hast devised shame to thy house, By cutting off many peoples, And hast forfeited thy life.
11	For the stone shall cry out of the wall, And the beam out of the timber shall answer it.
12	Woe to him that buildeth a town with blood, And establisheth a city by iniquity!
13	Behold, is it not of the LORD of hosts That the peoples labour for the fire, And the nations weary themselves for vanity?
14	For the earth shall be filled With the knowledge of the glory of the LORD, As the waters cover the sea.
15	Woe unto him that giveth his neighbour drink, That puttest thy venom thereto, and makest him drunken also, That thou mayest look on their nakedness!
16	Thou art filled with shame instead of glory, Drink thou also, and be uncovered; The cup of the LORD’S right hand shall be turned unto thee, And filthiness shall be upon thy glory.
17	For the violence done to Lebanon shall cover thee, And the destruction of the beasts, which made them afraid; Because of men’s blood, and for the violence done to the land, To the city and to all that dwell therein.
18	What profiteth the graven image, That the maker thereof hath graven it, Even the molten image, and the teacher of lies; That the maker of his work trusteth therein, To make dumb idols?
19	Woe unto him that saith to the wood: ‘Awake’, To the dumb stone: ‘Arise!’ Can this teach? Behold, it is overlaid with gold and silver, And there is no breath at all in the midst of it.
20	But the LORD is in His holy temple; Let all the earth keep silence before Him.