1	After these words, as the wrath of the king Ahasuerus was quiet, he remembered Vashti, and what she did, and what was decided against her:
2	And the king’s young men will say, those serving him, They shall seek for the king, maidens, virgins good of appearance:
3	And the king shall appoint overseers in all the provinces of his kingdom, and they shall gather together all the maidens, virgins, good of appearance, to Shushan the fortress, to the house of the women, to the hand of Hegai, the king’s eunuch, watching the women; giving their purifications:
4	And the maiden who shall be good in the eyes of the king shall reign instead of Vashti. And the word will be good in the eyes of the king; and he will do so.
5	A man, a Jew, was in Shushan the fortress, and his name Mordecai, son of Jair, son of Shimei, son of Kish, a man, a Benjamite;
6	Who was carried captive from Jerusalem with the captivity which was carried into exile with Jeconiah, king of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babel carried into exile.
7	And he will be nourishing Hadassah (this is Esther) his uncle’s daughter: for not to her, father and mother, and the maiden beautiful of form and good of aspect; and in the death of her father and her mother; Mordecai took her to him for a daughter.
8	And it will be in hearing the word of the king and his edict, and in the gathering together of the many maidens to Shushan the fortress, to the hand of Hegai, and Esther will be taken to the house of the king to the hand of Hegai watching the women.
9	And the maiden will be good in his eyes, and she will receive mercy before him; and he will hasten her purifications, and to give her portion to her, and to give to her seven chosen maidens from the house of the king: and he will change her and her maidens for good to the house of the women.
10	Esther announced not her people and her birth: for Mordecai commanded to her that she shall not announce.
11	And in every day and day, Mordecai going about before the enclosure of the house of the women, to know the peace of Esther, and what will be done with her.
12	And in the coming of the order of maiden and maiden to come in to the king Ahasuerus, from the end of there being to her, according to edict; of women twelve months (for so shall be completed the days of their purifications, six months with oil of myrrh, and six months with spices, and with the purifications of the women;)
13	And thus came the maiden to the king; all which she shall say shall be given to her, to come with her from the house of the women even to the, house of the king.
14	In the evening she came, and in the morning she turned back to the second house of the women, to the hand of Shaashgaz, the king’s eunuch watching the concubines: she will no more come to the king except the king delighted in her, and she was called by name.
15	And in the coming of the turn of Esther the daughter of Abihail, uncle of Mordecai, which he took to him for a daughter, to go in to the king, she sought not a word except what Hegai the king’s eunuch watching the women shall say. And Esther will be taking up favor in the eyes of all seeing her.
16	And Esther will be taken to the king Ahasuerus, to the house of his kingdom, in the tenth month, this the month Tebeth, in the seventh year to his kingdom.
17	And the king will love Esther above all the women, and she will receive favor and mercy before him above all the virgins; and he will set the crown of the kingdom upon her head, and he will cause her to reign instead of Vashti.
18	And the king will make a great drinking to all his chiefs and his servants; Esther’s drinking; and he made rest to the provinces, and he will give a lifting up according to the hand of the king.
19	And in the gathering together the virgins the second time, and Mordecai sat in the gate of the king.
20	And Esther not announcing her kindred and her people, as Mordecai commanded to her: and Esther did the saying of Mordecai as when she was in bringing up with him.
21	In those days, and Mordecai sat in the gate of the king, Bigthan was angry, and Teresh, two eunuchs of the king watching the threshold; and they will seek to stretch forth the hand against the king Ahasuerus.
22	And the word will be known to Mordecai, and he will announce to Esther the queen; and Esther will tell to the king in the name of Mordecai.
23	And the word will be sought out and found, and they two will be hung upon a tree: and it will be written in the book of the words of the days before the king.