1	And king David was old, going in days; and they will cover him with garments, and he will not be warm.
2	And his servants will say to him, They shall seek for my lord the king a girl, a virgin, and she standing before the king, and she shall be to him an associate, and lying in thy bosom, and it shall be warm to my lord the king.
3	And they will seek a fair girl in all the bound of Israel, and they will find Abishag the Shunamite, and they will bring her to the king.
4	And the girl fair, even exceedingly, and she will be to the king an associate, and she will serve him: and the king knew her not.
5	And Adonijah, son of Haggith being lifted up, saying, I will reign; and he will make to himself chariots and horsemen, and fifty men to run before him.
6	And his father grieved him not from his days, saying, Wherefore didst thou thus? and he good of form, exceedingly; and she bare him after Absalom.
7	And his words will be with Joab, son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar the priest; and they will help after Adonijah.
8	And Zadok the priest, and Benaiah, son of Jehoida, and Nathan the prophet, and Shimei, and Rei, and the mighty which were to David, were not with Adonijah.
9	And Adonijah will sacrifice sheep and oxen and the fatling, by the stone of Zoheleth, which is next the fountain of the fuller, and he will call all his brethren the king’s sons, and for all the men of Judah the king’s servants:
10	And Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah, and the mighty, and Solomon his brother, he called not.
11	And Nathan will say to Bathsheba, saying, Didst thou not hear that Adonijah son of Haggith reigned, and David our lord knew not?
12	Come now, advising, I will now advise thee, and save thou thy soul and the soul of thy son Solomon.
13	Come, go in to king David, and say to him, My lord the king, didst thou not swear to thy servant, saying, That Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne? and wherefore did Adonijah reign?
14	Behold thee yet speaking with the king, and I will come in after thee and complete thy words.
15	And Bath-sheba will go in to the king to the chamber: and the king was very old; and Abishag the Shunamite serving the king.
16	And Bath-sheba will bow and worship to the king, and the king will say, What to thee?
17	And she will say to him, My lord, thou didst swear by Jehovah thy God to thy servant that Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne.
18	And now, behold, Adonijah reigning; and now my lord the king knew not:
19	And he will sacrifice oxen and the fatling, and sheep for multitude, and he will call to all the sons of the king, and for Abiathar the priest, and for Joab, chief of the army: and Solomon thy servant he called not.
20	And thou, my lord the king, the eyes of all Israel are upon thee to announce to them who shall sit upon the throne of my lord the king after him.
21	And being when my lord the king lies down with his fathers, I and my son Solomon being the sinful.
22	And behold her yet speaking with the king, and Nathan the prophet came in.
23	And they will announce to the king, saying, Behold, Nathan the prophet. And he will come in before the king, and he will worship to the king upon his face to the earth.
24	And Nathan will say, My lord the king, saidst thou Adonijah shall reign after me and he shall sit upon my throne?
25	For he went down this day, and he will sacrifice oxen and the fatling, and sheep for multitude, and he will call to all the king’s sons, and for the chief of the army, and for Abiathar the priest, and behold them eating and drinking before him, and they will say, King Adonijah shall live.
26	And for me, me thy servant, and for Zadok the priest, and for Benaiah son of Jehoida, and for Solomon thy servant, he called not.
27	If from my lord the king was this word, and thou madest not known to thy servant who shall sit upon the throne of my lord the king after him?
28	And king David will answer and say, Call to me for Bath-sheba. And she will come in before the king and stand before the king.
29	And the king will swear, and say, Jehovah lives who redeemed my soul from all straits.
30	For us I swear to thee by Jehovah the God of Israel, saying that Solomon thy son shall reign after me and he shall sit upon my throne instead of me; for so I will do this day.
31	And Bath-sheba will bow the face to the earth and worship to the king, and say, My lord king David shall live forever,
32	And king David will say, Call to me for Zadok the priest, and for Nathan the prophet, and for Benaiah the son of Jehoida. And they will come in before the king.
33	And the king will say to them, Take with you the servants of your lord and cause Solomon my son to ride upon the mule which is to me, and bring down to Gihon:
34	And Zadok the priest anointed him there, and Nathan the prophet, for king over Israel: and strike ye upon the trumpet and say, King Solomon shall live.
35	And come up after him, and he coming, and he shall sit upon my throne, and he shall reign instead of me: and I commanded him to be ruler over Israel and over Judah.
36	And Benaiah, son of Jehoida, will answer the king and say, Verily: so will Jehovah say, the God of my lord the king.
37	As Jehovah was with my lord the king, so will he be with Solomon, and he will magnify his throne above the throne of my lord, king David.
38	And Zadok the priest will go down, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah son of Jehoida, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and they will cause Solomon to ride upon king David’s mule, and they will cause him to go to Gihon.
39	And Zadok the priest will take a horn of oil from the tent and will anoint Solomon; and they will strike upon the trumpet, and all the people will say, King Solomon shall live.
40	And all the people will go up after him, and the people piping with pipes and rejoicing with great joy, and the earth will break forth with their voice.
41	And Adonijah will hear, and all being called with him, and they finished eating. And Joab will hear the voice of the trumpet, and say, Wherefore the voice of the city put in motion?
42	He yet speaking, and behold, Jonathan son of Abiathar the priest came in; and Adonijah will say, Come in, for thou a man of strength, and thou wilt announce good news.
43	And Jonathan will answer and say to Adonijah, Truly our lord king David made Solomon king.
44	And the king will send with him Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah son of Jehoida, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and they will cause him to ride upon the kings mule:
45	And Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet will anoint him for king in Gihon: and they will go up from thence rejoicing, and the city will be put in motion: this the voice which ye heard.
46	And also Solomon will sit upon the throne of the kingdom.
47	And also the king’s servants came to bless our lord king David, saying. Thy God will do good to the name of Solomon above thy name, and he will magnify his throne above thy throne. And the king will worship upon the bed.
48	And also thus will the king say, Blessed Jehovah the God of Israel who gave this day him sitting upon my throne, and mine eyes seeing.
49	And all the called that were to Adonijah will tremble, and will rise and go, a man to his way.
50	And Adonijah will, be afraid of the face of Solomon, and he will rise and go, and lay hold upon the horns of the altar.
51	And it will be announced to Solomon, saving, Behold, Adonijah was afraid of king Solomon, and behold, he seized upon the horns of the altar, saying, Will king Solomon swear to me according to the day if he will kill his servant with the sword?
52	And Solomon will say, If he will be for a son of strength there shall not fall of his hairs to the earth: and if evil shall be found in him and he shall die.
53	And king Solomon will send and they will bring him down from the altar. And he will come and worship to king Solomon: and Solomon will say to him, Go to thy house.