1	And Ahab will announce to Jezebel all that Elijah did, and all how he killed all the prophets with the sword.
2	And Jezebel will send a messenger to Elijah, saying, Thus will God do and thus will he add that according to the time to-morrow I will set thy soul as the soul of one of them.
3	And he will see and arise, and go for his soul, and he will come to the Well of the Oath which was to Judah, and he will leave his boy there.
4	And he went into the desert the way of a day, and he will come and sit under one broom-tree: and he will ask for his soul to die: and he will say, Much now, O Jehovah, Take my soul, for I am not good above my fathers.
5	And he will lie down and sleep under one broom-tree, and behold, then a messenger touched upon him, and he will say to him, Arise, eat.
6	And he will look, and behold, from his head cakes baked on hot stones, and a cruse of water: and he will eat and drink, and turn back and lie down.
7	And the messenger of Jehovah will turn back the second time, and he will touch upon him, and say, Arise, eat, for much for thee the way.
8	And he will rise and eat and drink, and go in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights, even to the mountain of God, Horeb.
9	And he will go there into a cave and lodge there; and behold, the word of Jehovah to him, and he will say to him, What to thee here Elijah?
10	And he will say, Being zealous I was zealous for Jehovah the God of armies: for the sons of Israel forsook thy covenant; they tore down thine altars, and thy prophets they killed with the sword, and I alone shall be left; and they will seek my soul to take it.
11	And he will say, Go forth and stand upon the mountain before Jehovah And behold, Jehovah passed by, and a great and strong wind weakening the mountains, and breaking the rocks before Jehovah; Jehovah not in the wind: and after the wind, a shaking; Jehovah not in the shaking:
12	And after the shaking, a fire; Jehovah not in the fire: and after the fire, a voice of light stillness.
13	And it will be when Elijah heard, he will cover his face in his large cloak, and he will go forth and stand at the opening of the cave; and behold, to him a voice, and it will say, What to thee here, Elijah?
14	And he will say, Being zealous, I was zealous for Jehovah the God of armies, for the sons of Israel forsook thy covenant; thine altars they tore down, and thy prophets they killed with the sword, and I alone shall be left; and they will seek my soul to take it.
15	And Jehovah will say to him, Go, turn back to thy way of the desert of Damascus: and come and anoint Hazael for king over Aram:
16	And Jehu, son of Nimshi, shalt thou anoint for king over Israel: and Elisha son of Shaphat, from Abel-Meholah, It thou anoint for prophet in thy stead.
17	And it was him escaping from the sword of Hazael shall Jehu kill: and him escaping from the sword of Jehu, shall Elisha.
18	And I left in Israel seven thousand, all the knees which bowed not to Baal, and every mouth which kissed him not.
19	And he will go from thence and find Elisha son of Shaphat, and he ploughed with twelve yoke before him, and he with the twelve: and Elijah will pass away by him, and he will cast his wide cloak to him.
20	And he will forsake the oxen and run after Elijah, and say, I will kiss now to my father and to my mother, and I will go after thee. And he will say to him, Go, turn back; for what did I to thee?
21	And he will turn back from after him and take a yoke of oxen and sacrifice them, and with the instruments of the oxen he boiled them the flesh, and he will give to the people, and they will eat. And he will rise and go after Elijah and serve him.