1	And Solomon will be reigning, king over all Israel.
2	And these the chiefs which were to him: Azariah, son of Zadok the priest;
3	Elihoreph and Ahiah, sons of Shisha, scribes; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud, remembering.
4	And Benaiah, son of Jehoida, over the army: and Zadok and Abiathar, priests:
5	And Azariah son of Nathan, over the stations: and Zabud, son of Nathan the priest, the king’s friend:
6	And Ahishar over the house: and Adoniram son of Abda over the tribute.
7	And to Solomon, twelve, set over all Israel, and they furnished the king and his house: a month in the year will be for one to furnish.
8	And these their names: the son of Hur in mount Ephraim:
9	The son of Dekar, in Makaz, and in Shaalbim, and the House of the Sun, and the oak of the House of Mercy.
10	The son of Hesed in Araboth; to him Sochoh, and all the land of Hepher:
11	The son of Abinadab, all the height of Dor: Taphath the daughter of Solomon was to him for wife.
12	Baana son of Ahilud; Taanach and Megiddo, and all the House of Rest, which is by Zartanah from beneath Jezreel, from the House of Rest even to the Meadow of Dancing, even to the other side of Jokneam.
13	The son of Geber in Ramoth-Gilead; to him Havoth-Jair son of Manasseh, which was in Gilead; to him a portion of Ergab which is in Bashan, sixty great cities, with a wall and bars of brass.
14	Ahinadab, son of Iddo, the two camps.
15	Ahimaaz in Naphtali; also he took Basmath daughter of Solomon for wife.
16	Baana, son of Hushai in Asher and in Aloth:
17	Jehoshaphat son of Paruah in Issachar:
18	Shimei, son of Elah, in Benjamin.
19	Geber, son of Uri, in the land of Gilead, the land of Sihon, king of the Amorites, and Og, king of Bashan; and one king set which was in the land.
20	Judah and Israel many as the sand which is by the sea for multitude, eating and drinking and rejoicing.
21	And Solomon was ruling over all kingdoms from the river to the land of the rovers, and even to the bound of Egypt: they were bringing a gift and serving Solomon all the days of his life.
22	And the bread of Solomon for one day will be thirty cors of fine flour, and sixty cors of meal,
23	Ten fatted oxen, and twenty oxen of the shepherd, and a hundred sheep, besides from the stag and the roe and the fallow deer, and fowls fattened.
24	For he ruled over all beyond the river, from Tiphsah and even to Azzah, over all the kings beyond the river: and there was peace to him from all his servants from round about.
25	And Judah dwelt, and Israel, with confidence, a man under his vine and under his fig tree, from Dan and even to the Well of the Oath, all the days of Solomon.
26	And there will be to Solomon forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen.
27	And these being set, furnished king Solomon, and all coming near king Solomon’s table, each his month: a word will not be wanting.
28	And the barley and the straw for horses, and for coursers, they will bring to the place where a man will be there according to his judgment.
29	And God will give wisdom to Solomon, and understanding exceeding much, and breadth of heart as the sand which is upon the lip of the sea.
30	And the wisdom of Solomon will be multiplied above the wisdom of all the sons of the east, and above all the wisdom of Egypt.
31	And he will be wise above all men; above Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman and Chalcol and Darda, sons of Mahol: and his name will be in all the nations round about.
32	And he will speak three thousand parables: and his songs will be five and a thousand.
33	And he will speak concerning the woods, from the cedar which is in Lebanon, even to the hyssop which went forth on the wall: and he will speak upon the cattle, and upon the birds, and upon the creeping things, and upon the fishes.
34	And there will come from all peoples to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all the kings of the earth who heard his wisdom.