1	And it will be when Solomon finished building the house of Jehovah, and the house of the king, and all the pleasure of Solomon which he desired to do,
2	And Jehovah will be seen to Solomon the second time as he was seen to him in the hill.
3	And Jehovah will say to him, I heard thy supplication and thy prayer which thou didst supplicate before me: I consecrated this house which thou didst build to put my name there even to forever; and mine eyes and my heart were there all the days.
4	And thou, if thou shalt go before me as David thy father went with integrity of heart and in uprightness to do according to all that I commanded thee, my law and my judgment thou shalt watch:
5	And I raised up the throne of thy kingdom over Israel forever, as spake to David thy father, saying, There shall not be cut off to thee a man from the throne of Israel.
6	If turning back, ye shall turn back, ye and your sons from after me, and shall not watch my commands, my laws which I gave before you, and ye went and served other gods and worshiped to them:
7	And I cut off Israel from the face of the earth which I gave to them and the house which I consecrated to my name I will cast out from my face; and Israel was for a parable and for a derision among all peoples.
8	And this house shall be high, every one passing by it shall be astonished, and shall hiss: and they said, For what did Jehovah thus to this land and to this house?
9	And they said, Because they forsook Jehovah their God who brought forth their fathers out of the land of Egypt, and they will lay hold upon other gods and worship to them, and serve them: for this, Jehovah brought, upon them all this evil.
10	And it will be from the end of twenty years, when Solomon built the two houses, the house of Jehovah and the house of the king,
11	(Hiram, king of Tyre, aided Solomon in woods of cedars and in woods of cypresses, and in gold to all his desire) then king Solomon will give Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee.
12	And Hiram came out from Tyre to see the cities which Solomon gave to him, and they were not right in his eyes.
13	And he will say, What these cities which thou gavest to me, my brother? And he will call them the land Cabul even to this day.
14	And Hiram will send to the king a hundred and twenty talents of gold.
15	And this the word of tribute which king Solomon brought up to build the house of Jehovah, and his house, and the fortress, and the walls of Jerusalem, and the enclosure, and Megiddo, and Gezer.
16	Pharaoh king of Egypt came up, and he will take Gezer and burn it in fire, and he killed the Canaanite dwelling in the city, and he will give it a sending to his daughter, Solomon’s.
17	And Solomon will build Gezer, and the house of the hollow below,
18	And Baalath and Tadmor in the desert, in the land.
19	And all the cities of stores which were to Solomon, and the cities of chariots, and the cities of horsemen, and the pleasure of Solomon which he pleased to build in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon; and in all the land of his ruling.
20	All the people remaining of the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites and the Jebusites, which were not of the sons of Israel;
21	Their sons which were left after them in the land, which the sons of Israel will not be able to destroy them, and Solomon will bring them up for tribute of work even to this day.
22	And of the sons of Israel, Solomon gave not to serve, for they were men of war, and his servants and his chiefs, and his warriors, and chiefs of chariots, and his horsemen.
23	These the chiefs being stationed which were over the work to Solomon, fifty and five hundred going down among the people working in the work.
24	But Pharaoh’s daughter went up from the city of David to her house which he built for her: then he built the fortress.
25	And Solomon brought up three times in a year burnt-offerings and peace upon the altar which he built to Jehovah, and he burnt incense upon it that was before Jehovah: and he completed the house.
26	And Solomon made a ship in Ezion-Geber, which is with Eloth, upon the lip of the sea of sedge in the land of Edom.
27	And Hiram will send in the ships his servants, men of ships, knowing the sea with Solomon’s servants.
28	And they will come to Ophir, and take gold, four hundred and twenty talents, and bring to king Solomon.