1	But now thus saith the LORD that created thee, O Jacob, And He that formed thee, O Israel: Fear not, for I have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy name, thou art Mine.
2	When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee, And through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee; When thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned, Neither shall the flame kindle upon thee.
3	For I am the LORD thy God, The Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour; I have given Egypt as thy ransom, Ethiopia and Seba for thee.
4	Since thou art precious in My sight, and honourable, And I have loved thee; Therefore will I give men for thee, And peoples for thy life.
5	Fear not, for I am with thee; I will bring thy seed from the east, And gather thee from the west;
6	I will say to the north: ‘Give up’, And to the south: ‘Keep not back, Bring My sons from far, And My daughters from the end of the earth;
7	Every one that is called by My name, And whom I have created for My glory, I have formed him, yea, I have made him.’
8	The blind people that have eyes shall be brought forth, And the deaf that have ears.
9	All the nations are gathered together, And the peoples are assembled; Who among them can declare this, And announce to us former things? Let them bring their witnesses, that they may be justified; And let them hear, and say: ‘It is truth.’
10	Ye are My witnesses, saith the LORD, And My servant whom I have chosen; That ye may know and believe Me, and understand That I am He; Before Me there was no God formed, Neither shall any be after Me.
11	I, even I, am the LORD; And beside Me there is no saviour.
12	I have declared, and I have saved, And I have announced, And there was no strange god among you; Therefore ye are My witnesses, saith the LORD, and I am God.
13	Yea, since the day was I am He, And there is none that can deliver out of My hand; I will work, and who can reverse it?
14	Thus saith the LORD, your Redeemer, The Holy One of Israel: For your sake I have sent to Babylon, And I will bring down all of them as fugitives, Even the Chaldeans, in the ships of their shouting.
15	I am the LORD, your Holy One, The Creator of Israel, your King.
16	Thus saith the LORD, who maketh a way in the sea, And a path in the mighty waters;
17	Who bringeth forth the chariot and horse, The army and the power—They lie down together, they shall not rise, They are extinct, they are quenched as a wick:
18	Remember ye not the former things, Neither consider the things of old.
19	Behold, I will do a new thing; Now shall it spring forth; shall ye not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness, And rivers in the desert.
20	The beasts of the field shall honour Me, The jackals and the ostriches; Because I give waters in the wilderness, And rivers in the desert, To give drink to My people, Mine elect;
21	The people which I formed for Myself, That they might tell of My praise.
22	Yet thou hast not called upon Me, O Jacob, Neither hast thou wearied thyself about Me, O Israel.
23	Thou hast not brought Me the small cattle of thy burnt-offerings; Neither hast thou honoured Me with thy sacrifices. I have not burdened thee with a meal-offering, Nor wearied thee with frankincense.
24	Thou hast bought Me no sweet cane with money, Neither hast thou satisfied Me with the fat of thy sacrifices; But thou hast burdened Me with thy sins, Thou hast wearied Me with thine iniquities.
25	I, even I, am He that blotteth out thy transgressions for Mine own sake; And thy sins I will not remember.
26	Put Me in remembrance, let us plead together; Declare thou, that thou mayest be justified.
27	Thy first father sinned, And thine intercessors have transgressed against Me.
28	Therefore I have profaned the princes of the sanctuary, And I have given Jacob to condemnation, And Israel to reviling.