1	These the generations of the sons of Noah; Shem, Ham, and Japheth. And sons shall be born to them after the flood.
2	The sons of Japheth; Gomer and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
3	And the sons of Gomer; Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
4	And the sons of Javan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Chittim and Dodanirn.
5	By these were the isles of the nations divided in their lands; a man according to his tongue, according to their tribe, in their nations.
6	And the sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizraim, and Phut, and Canaan.
7	And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabtecha; and the sons of Raamah; Sheba and Dedan.
8	And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be strong in the earth.
9	He was a strong taker of prey before the face of Jehovah; for this he will say, As Nimrod the strong hunter before the face of Jehovah.
10	And the beginning of his kingdom shall be Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
11	From that land shall come forth Asshur, and shall build Nineveh, and the city Reheboth, and Calah,
12	And Resen between Nineveh and Calah: this a great city.
13	And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim.
14	And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (which from the same came Philistine) and Caphtorim.
15	And Caanan will beget Sidon, his first-born, and Heth,
16	And the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite,
17	And the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,
18	And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite: and afterward the families of the Canaanites were dispersed.
19	And the bound of the Canaanite shall be from Sidon in thy coming to Gerar, to Azzah; in thy coming to Sodom and Gomorrah, and Admah, and Zeboim, even to Lasha.
20	These the sons of Hain according to their families, according to their tongues, in their lands, in their nations.
21	And to Shem shall be born, even to him the father of all the sons of Eber, the brother of Japheth the great.
22	The sons of Shem: Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaeshad, and Lud, and Aram.
23	And the sons of Aram: Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.
24	And Arphaeshad shall beget Shelah, and Shelah shall beget Eber.
25	And to Eber shall be born two sons: the name of the latter, Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided; and the name of his brother, Joktan.
26	And Joktan will beget Ahnodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,
27	And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,
28	And Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba,
29	And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab: all these the sons of Joktan.
30	And their dwelling shall be from Mesha, in thy going to Sephar, a mountain of the east.
31	These the sons of Shem, according to their families, according to their tongues, in their lands, according to their nations.
32	These the families of Noah after their generations, in their nations and by these were the nations divided in the earth after the flood.