1	And all the earth shall be one lip, and the same words.
2	And it shall be in their removing from the east they shall find a valley in the land of Shmar; and they shall dwell there.
3	And they shall say a man to his neighbor, Come, we will make bricks, and we will burn to a burning, and brick shall be to them for stone, and potter’s clay shall be to them for potter’s clay.
4	And they will say, Come, we will build to us a city, and a tower, its head to the heavens; and we will make to us a name, lest we shall be dispersed over the face of the earth.
5	And Jehovah will come down to see the city, and the tower which the sons of men built.
6	And Jehovah will say, Behold, the people one, and one lip to them all; and this they begin to do: and now it will not be restrained from them all which they shall imagine to do.
7	Come, we will come down and mix their lip that they shall not hear a man the lip of his neighbor.
8	And Jehovah will disperse them from thence over the face of all the earth: and they will cease to build the city.
9	Therefore its name was called confusion, for there Jehovah confounded the lip of all the earth: and from thence Jehovah dispersed them over the face of all the earth.
10	These the generations of Shem: Shem the son of a hundred years, and he will beget Arphaeshad, two years after the flood.
11	And Shem shall live after his begetting Arphaeshad, five hundred years, and he shall beget sons and daughters.
12	And Arphaeshad will live five and thirty years, and will beget Shelah.
13	And Arphaeshad shall live after his begetting Shelah, three years and four hundred years, and he will beget sons and daughters.
14	And Shelah will live thirty years and will beget Eber.
15	And Shelah will live after his begetting Eber, three years and four hundred years, and will beget sons and daughters.
16	And Eber will live four and thirty years and will beget Peleg.
17	And Eber will live after his begetting Peleg, thirty years and four hundred years, and will beget sons and daughters.
18	And Peleg will live thirty years and will beget Reu.
19	And Peleg will live after his begetting Reu, nine years and two hundred years, and he will beget sons and daughters.
20	And Reu will live two and thirty years, and he will beget Serug.
21	And Reu shall live after his begetting Serug, seven years and two hundred years, and he will beget sons and daughters.
22	And Serug will live thirty years and will beget Nahor.
23	And Serug will live after his begetting Nahor, two hundred years, and will beget sons and daughters.
24	And Nahor will live nine and twenty years, and will beget Terah.
25	And Nahor will live after his begetting Terah, nineteen years and a hundred years, and he will beget sons and daughters.
26	And Terah will live seventy years and will beget Abram, Nahor, and Haran.
27	And these the generations of Terah: Terah begetting Abram, Nahor, and Haran: and Haran begetting Lot.
28	And Haran will die at the face of Terah his father in the land of his birth, in Ur of the Chaldees.
29	And Abram and Nahor will take to them wives, the name of Abram’s wife Sarai; and the name of Nahor’s wife, Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah.
30	And Sarai shall be barren; to her not a child.
31	And Terah will take Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran, his son’s son, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, his son Abram’s wife, and they shall come forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to move to the land of Canaan and they will come to Haran, and will dwell there.
32	And the days of Haran shall be five years and two hundred years; and Terah shall die in Haran.