1	And Jehovah will say to Abram, Go for thyself from thy land, and from thy kindred, and from thy father’s house, to the land which I will shew thee.
2	And I will make thee into a great nation, and I will bless thee, and I will make thy name great; and thou shalt be blessed.
3	And I will praise them praising thee, and I will curse him cursing thee, and in thee shall all the families of the earth be praised.
4	And Abram went according to which Jehovah spake to him, and Lot went with him: and Abram the son of five years and seventy years in his coming out of Haran.
5	And Abram will take Sand his wife, and Lot his brother’s son, and all their riches which they acquired, and the souls which they acquired in Haran, and they came forth to go into the land of Canaan; and they shall come into the land of Canaan.
6	And Abram shall pass over the land to the place Sichem, to the erect oak tree. And the Canaanite then in the land.
7	And Jehovah shall be seen to Abram, and will say, To thy seed will I give this land, and he will build there an altar to Jehovah, being seen to him.
8	And he will remove from thence to the mountain from the cast of the house of God, and shall stretch forth his tent; Bethel from the sea, and Hai from the east, and he shall build there an altar to Jehovah, and will call upon the name of Jehovah.
9	And Abram will remove, going and removing to the desert.
10	And there shall be a famine in the land; and Abram will go down to Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine was strong in the land.
11	And it shall be when he came near to go to Egypt, he will say to Sarai his wife, Behold, now I knew that thou wert a fair woman to see.
12	And it shall be when the Egyptians shall see thee, they shall say, This is his wife; and they will kill me, and thee they will permit to live.
13	Say, now, thou my sister, that it shall be well to me because of thee, and my soul shall live by means of thee.
14	And it shall be when Abram goes to Egypt, and the Egyptians will see the woman that she was very fair.
15	And Pharaoh’s rulers will see her, and will praise her to Pharaoh, and the woman shall be taken into Pharaoh’s house.
16	And he will do good to Abram on account of her; and there shall be to him sheep and oxen and he-asses, and servants and maids, and she-asses and camels.
17	And Jehovah will touch Pharaoh with great strokes, and his house on account of Sarai, Abram’s wife.
18	And Pharaoh will call to Abram, and will say, What this thou didst to me? why didst thou not declare to me that she is thy wife?
19	Why saidst thou, She is my sister and I shall take her to me for a wife? and now behold thy wife, take and go.
20	And Pharaoh will command the men concerning him, and they will send him away, and his wife and all that is to him.