1	And Abram shall be the son of ninety years and nine years: Jehovah shall be seen to Abram and will say to him, I am God Almighty; walk thou before me, and be complete.
2	And I will give my covenant between me and between thee, and I will multiply thee with might exceedingly.
3	And Abram will fall upon his face, and God will speak to him, saying,
4	I, behold my covenant with thee, thou being father of a multitude of nations.
5	And thy name shall no more be called Abram, and thy name shall be Abraham, for the father of a multitude of nations have I given thee.
6	And I made thee fruitful with might exceedingly, and I gave thee for nations, and kings shall come forth from thee.
7	And I set up my covenant between me and between thee, and between thy seed after thee to their generations for a covenant of eternity; to be a God to thee and to thy seed after thee.
8	And I gave to thee and to thy seed after thee, the land of thy sojournings with all the land of Canaan for an eternal possession; and I was God to them.
9	And God will say to Abraham, Thou shalt watch my covenant, thou, and thy seed after thee to their generations.
10	This my covenant which ye shall watch between me and between you, and between thy seed after thee; every male among you to be circumcised.
11	And ye circumcised the flesh of your uncircumcision; and it was for a sign of the covenant between me and between you.
12	And the son of eight days shall be circumcised, every male of your generations being born in the house, and he bought with silver, from every son of the stranger which is not of thy seed.
13	He shall be circumcised with circumcising, he being born in thy house, and bought with thy silver: and my covenant was in your flesh for an eternal covenant.
14	And the uncircumcised male which shall not be circumcised in the flesh of his uncircumcision, and that soul shall be cut off from its people: he broke my covenant.
15	And God will say to Abraham, Sarai, thy wife, thou shalt not call her name Sarai, for Sarah her name.
16	And I blessed her, and I gave thee also a son of her: and I blessed her and she was for nations, and kings of people shall be from her.
17	And Abraham will fall upon his face and laugh, and will say in his heart, Shall there be born to the son of a hundred years? and shall Sarah the daughter of ninety years, bring forth?
18	And Abraham will say to God, O for Ishmael to live before thee.
19	And God will say. Truly, Sarah thy wife, shall bring forth to thee a son, and shall call his name Isaak: and I set up my covenant with him for a lasting covenant, and to his seed after him.
20	And for Ishmael, I have heard thee: Behold, I blessed him and made him fruitful, and I multiplied him with might exceedingly: twelve chiefs shall he beget, and I will give him into a great nation.
21	And my covenant will I set up with Isaak whom Sarah shall bring forth to thee at this appointed time in another year.
22	And he will finish speaking with him, and God will go up from Abraham.
23	And Abraham will take Ishmael his son, and all born in his house and bought with his silver, every male among the men of Abraham’s house, and he will circumcise the flesh of their uncircumcision, in the self-same day, according to which God spake to him.
24	And Abraham, the son of ninety and nine years in his circumcising the flesh of his uncircumcision.
25	And Ishmael his son, the son of thirteen years in his circumcising the flesh of his uncircumcision.
26	And in the self-same day was Abraham circumcised, and Ishmael his son;
27	And all the men of his house, born in his house, and bought with silver of the son of the stranger, were circumcised with him.