1	And Abraham will remove from thence to the land of the south, and will dwell between Kadesh and between Shur, and will sojourn in Gerar.
2	And Abraham will say as to Sarah his wife, This my sister: and Abimelech, king of Gerar, will send and take Sarah.
3	And God will come to Abimelech in a dream at night, and say to him, Behold, thou dead, for the woman which thou didst take, and she having married a husband.
4	And Abimelech came not near to her: and he will say, Lord, wilt thou also slay a just nation?
5	Did he not say to me, This my sister? and she also, she said he is my brother: in the uprightness of my heart, and in cleanness of my hands have I done this.
6	And God will say to him in a dream, I knew also that in the uprightness of thy heart thou didst this; and I also will restrain thee from sinning against me: for this I suffered thee not to touch her.
7	And now turn back to the man the woman; for he is a prophet, and he shall pray for thee, and do thou live: and if thou turn her not back, know that dying, thou shalt die, thou and all which are to thee.
8	And Abimelech will rise early in the morning, and will call to all his servants, and will speak all these words in their ears: and the men shall be greatly afraid.
9	And Abimelech will call to Abraham, and say to him, What didst thou to us? and what did we sin against thee, that thou didst bring upon me and upon my kingdom a great sin? thou didst works to me which shall not be done.
10	And Abimelech will say to Abraham, What sawest thou that thou didst this thing?
11	And Abraham will say, For I said, Surely there is not the fear of God in this place; and they will kill me because of my wife.
12	And truly also my sister; she is the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother: and she was to me for wife.
13	And it shall be when God causes me to wander from my father’s house, and I said to her, This thy kindness which thou shalt do by me; at every place to which we shall come, there say of me, He is my brother.
14	And Abimelech will take sheep and oxen and servants, and maid-servants, and will give to Abraham, and will return to him Sarah his wife.
15	And Abimelech will say, Behold, my land before thy face: dwell in the good in thine eyes.
16	And to Sarah he said, Behold, I gave a thousand of silver to thy brother; behold, he is to thee for a garment of the eyes to all who are with thee, and with all: and she was set right.
17	And Abraham will pray to God; and God will heal Abimelech, and his wife, and his maid-servants; and they will bring forth.
18	For shutting up, Jehovah shut up without every womb to the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah, Abraham’s wife.