1	And Jehovah reviewed Sarah as he said; and Jehovah will do to Sarah as he spake.
2	And Sarah shall conceive, and bring forth to Abraham a son to his old age, at the appointed time which God spake to him.
3	And Abraham shall call the name of his son being born to him, whom Sarah will bear to him, Isaak.
4	And Abraham shall circumcise Isaak his son, the son of eight days, as God commanded him.
5	And Abraham the son of an hundred years in the bringing forth to him Isaak his son.
6	And Sarah will say, God made me laugh; all hearing will laugh with me.
7	And she will say, Who spake to Abraham, Sarah suckles sons? for I brought forth a son in his old age.
8	And the child will become great, and shall be weaned; and Abraham will make a great drinking in the day of weaning Isaak.
9	And Sarah will see the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which she brought forth to Abraham, laughing.
10	And she will say to Abraham, Cast out this maid-servant and her son; for the son of this maid-servant shall not inherit with my son, with Isaak.
11	And the word was greatly evil in the eyes of Abraham, on account of his son.
12	And God will say to Abraham, It shall not be evil in thine eyes concerning the boy, and concerning thy maidservant; all which Sarah shall say to thee, hear to her voice; for in Isaak the seed shall be called to thee.
13	And also the son of this maid-servant, I will make him into a nation, for he is thy seed.
14	And Abraham will rise early in the morning, and take food, and a leathern bottle of water, and give to Hagar (putting upon her shoulder), and the child, and will send her away: and she will go forth and wander in the desert to the well of the oath.
15	And the waters shall be spent in the water skin, and she will cast the child under one of the shrubs.
16	And she will go and seat herself from over against, being far off as the bending of a bow: for she said, I will not see the death of the child. And she will seat herself from over against, and she will lift up her voice and weep.
17	And God will hear the voice of the child: and the messenger of God will call to Hagar from the heavens, and will say to her, What to thee Hagar? thou shalt not fear, for God heard the voice of the child, from where he is.
18	Arise, lift up the child, and fasten thy hand upon him; for I will make him into a great nation.
19	And God will open her eyes, and she will see a well of waters, and will go and fill the water skin with water, and will give the child to drink.
20	And God will be with the child; and he will be great, and dwell in the desert, and will be to increase the bow.
21	And he will dwell in the desert Paran: and his mother will take to him a wife from the land of Egypt.
22	And it shall be in that tune, and Abimelech will speak, and Phicol, leader of his army, to Abraham, saying, God is with thee in all that thou doest.
23	And now swear to me in God, whether if thou shalt lie to me and to my progeny, and to my progenies; according to the kindness which I did to thee, thou shalt do to me, and to the land in which thou didst sojourn in it.
24	And Abraham will say, I will swear.
25	And Abraham rebuked Abimelech on account of the well of waters which Abimelech’s servants took away by force.
26	And Abimelech will say, I knew not who did this thing; and also thou didst not announce to me, and also I heard not except this day.
27	And Abraham will take sheep and oxen, and give to Abimelech; and they two made a covenant.
28	And Abraham set, seven ewe lambs of the sheep alone.
29	And Abimelech will say to Abraham, What here these seven ewe lambs which thou didst set alone?
30	And he will say, For the seven ewe lambs thou shalt take from my hand, in order to be to me for a testimony that I dug this well.
31	For this he called that place, The well of the oath, for there they two aware.
32	And they will make a covenant, at the well of the oath, and Abimelech will rise up, and Phicol, the leader of his army, and they will turn back to the land of the Philistines,
33	And be will plant the tamarisk by the well of the oath, and will call there upon the name of Jehovah, the eternal God.
34	And Abraham will sojourn in the land of the Philistines many days.