1	And it shall be after these words, and God tried Abraham, and he will say to him, Abraham: and he will say, Behold, here I.
2	And he will say, Take now thy son, thine only, whom thou didst love, Isaak, and go by thyself to the land of Moriah; and carry him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains of which I told thee.
3	And Abraham will rise early in the morning, and will saddle his ass, and will take two of his boys with him, and Isaak his son, and he will cleave the wood for the burnt offering, and will rise up and go to the place God spake to him.
4	In the third day, Abraham will lift up his eyes and will see the place from far.
5	And Abraham will say to his boys, Sit ye here in this place with the ass; I and the boy will go even there and worship, and will turn back to you.
6	And Abraham will take the wood of the burnt offering, and put upon Isaak his son; and will take in his hand the fire and the knife, and they will go, they two together.
7	And Isaak will say to Abraham his father, and he will say, My father: and he will say, Behold, me, my son: And he will say, Behold the fire and the wood, and where the sheep for a burnt offering?
8	And Abraham will say, God will see to himself the sheep for a burnt-offering my son: and they will go, they two together.
9	And they will come to the place which God said to him; and Abraham will build an altar there, and put in order the wood: and he will find Isaak his son, and put him upon the altar, upon the wood.
10	And Abraham will stretch out the hand and will take the knife to slaughter his son.
11	And the messenger of Jehovah will call to him out of the heavens, and will say, Abraham, Abraham. And he will say, Behold me.
12	And he will say, Thou shalt not put forth thy hand upon the boy, and thou shalt do nothing to him; for now I know that thou fearest God, and thou didst not spare thy son thine only, from me.
13	And Abraham will lift up his eyes, and will see and behold a ram behind, being held in a thicket by his horns: and Abraham will come and take the ram and bring it for a burnt offering instead of his son.
14	And Abraham will call the name of that place, Jehovah will see: which shall be said to this day, Jehovah will see in the mountain.
15	And the messenger of Jehovah will call to Abraham the second time out of the heavens.
16	And he will say, By myself did I swear, says Jehovah, for because that thou didst this word, and didst not spare thy son, thine only.
17	That praising, I will praise thee, and multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heavens, and as the sand upon the lip of the sea; and thy seed shall inherit the gate of his enemies.
18	And in thy seed all the nations of the earth shall be praised; because that thou didst listen to my voice.
19	And Abraham will turn back to his boys, and they will rise up, and go together to the well of the oath; and Abraham will dwell at the well of the oath.
20	And it shall be after these words, it will be announced to Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she also will bring forth sons to Nahor, thy brother.
21	Uz, his first-born, and Buz, his brother, and Lemuel, the father of Aram.
22	And Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.
23	And Bethuel will beget Rebekah: these eight, Milcah will bring forth to Nahor, Abraham’s brother.
24	And his concubine, and her name Reumah, and she will bare Tebah, and Gaham, and Thahash, and Maachab.