1	And it shall be as Isaak grew old, and his eyes shall be weak for seeing, and he will call Esau his son the great, and he will say to him, My son: and he will say to him, Behold me.
2	And he will say, Behold now, I grew old; I knew not the day of my death.
3	Therefore take now, thy weapon, thy quiver and thy bow, and go forth to the field and hunt for me a hunting.
4	And make for me dainties as that I loved, and bring it to me, and eating, that my soul shall praise thee before I shall die.
5	And Rebekah heard in the speaking of Isaak to Esau his son: and Esau went to the field to hunt, a hunting, to bring.
6	And Rebekah spake to Jacob her son, saying, Behold, I heard thy father speaking to Esau thy brother, saying,
7	Bring to me a hunting, and make for me dainties, and eating, and I will praise thee before Jehovah, before my death.
8	And now my son, hear to my voice, according to that I command thee.
9	Go now to the flocks, and take to me from thence two kids of the she-goats good, and I will make them dainties for thy father, as that he loved.
10	And thou shall bring to thy father, and eating, so that he will praise thee before his death.
11	And Jacob will say to Rebekah his mother, Behold, Esau my brother a man of hair, and I a smooth man:
12	Perhaps my father will feel me, and I was in his eyes as mocking; and I brought a curse and not a praise.
13	And his mother will say to him, Upon me thy curse my son; only hear to my voice, and go take to me.
14	And he will go, and will take, and bring to his mother: and his mother will make dainties as that his father loved.
15	And Rebekah will take desirable covering of Esau her son, the great, which was with her in the house, and will put upon Jacob her son, the small.
16	And the nakedness of the skins of the shegoats, she put upon his hands and upon the smoothness of his neck.
17	And she will give the dainties, and the bread which she made, into the hand of Jacob her son.
18	And he will go to his father and will say, My father. And he will say, Behold me; who thou my son?
19	And Jacob will say to his father, I am Esau thy first-born; I did according to that thou spakest to me: arise, now, sit and eat from my hunting, so that thy soul shall praise me.
20	And Isaak will say to his son, How this, thou wert quick to find my son? and the will say, Because Jehovah thy God caused to meet before me.
21	And Isaak will say to Jacob, Come near, now, and I shall feel thee, my son, if thou this my son Esau or not.
22	And Jacob will come near to Isaak his father, and he will feel him, and he will say, The voice, the voice of Jacob; and the hands, the hands of Esau.
23	And he knew him not, for his hands were as the hands of Esau, his brother of hair: and he will praise him.
24	And he will say, Thou this my son Esau? and he will say, I.
25	And he will say, Bring near to me, and eating of my son’s hunting, so that my soul shall praise thee. And he will bring near to him and he will eat: and he will bring wine to him, and he will drink.
26	And Isaak his father will say to him, Come near, now, and kiss me, my son.
27	And he will come near, and will kiss him: and he will smell the smell of his garment, and he will bless him, and he will say, See, the smell of my son as the smell of a field which Jehovah praised.
28	And God will give to thee from the dew of the heavens, and from the fatness of the earth, and a multitude of corn and new wine.
29	And nations shall serve thee, and peoples shall bow down to thee; be lord over thy brother, and thy mother’s sons shall bow down to thee: cursed he cursing thee, and blessed he praising thee.
30	And it shall be after that Isaak finished to praise Jacob, and it shall be Jacob going will but go out from the face of Isaak his father, and Esau his brother came from his hunting.
31	And he also will make dainties, and will bring to his father; and he will say to his father, Will my father rise and eat from his son’s hunting, that thy soul shall bless me?
32	And Isaak his father will say to him, Who art thou? And he will say, I thy son, thy first-born, Esau.
33	And Isaak will tremble a great trembling, even exceedingly; and he will say, Who now is he having hunted a hunting, and will bring to me, and I ate from all before thou wilt come, and I shall praise him? also he shall be praised.
34	When Esau heard the words of his father, and he will cry out with a great cry, even bitter exceedingly, and he will say to his father, praise me, me also, my father!
35	And he will say, Thy brother came with deceit and he will take thy blessing.
36	And he will say, Is it not that his name was called Jacob? he will defraud me this twice: he took my birthright and behold, now he took my blessing And he will say, Didst thou not put aside a blessing for me?
37	And Isaak will answer and say to Esau, Behold, I made him mighty over thee, and all his brethren I gave to him for servants; and with corn and new wine I supported him: and what shall I do to thee my son?
38	And Esau will say to his father, Is but this one blessing to thee my father? bless me, also me, my father! and Esau will lift up the voice and weep.
39	And Isaak his father will answer and say to him, Behold, from the fatness of the earth shall be thy dwelling, and from the dew of the heavens above.
40	And by thy sword shalt thou live and shalt serve thy brother: and it shall be when thou shalt wander about and thou shalt break his yoke from thy neck.
41	And Esau will lie in wait for Jacob, because of the blessing which his father blessed him: and Esau will say in his heart, The days of mourning of my father will draw near, and I will kill Jacob my brother.
42	And the words of Esau her son, the great, will be announced to Rebekah; and she will send and call to Jacob her son, the small, and she will say to him, Behold, Esau thy brother will avenge himself toward thee by killing thee.
43	And now my son, hear to my voice: and arising escape for thyself to Laban my brother, to Haran.
44	And thou shalt dwell with him days afterwards, until thy brother’s wrath shall turn away;
45	Until thy brother’s anger turning away from thee, and forgetting what thou didst to him: and I have sent and have taken thee from thence, lest I shall be bereaved of you two in one day.
46	And Rebekah will say to Isaak, I was finished in my life from the face of the daughters of Heth: if Jacob took a wife from the daughters of Heth, as these from the daughters of the land, for what to me life?