1	And Isaak will call to Jacob, and will bless him, and will command him, and will say to him, Thou shalt not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan.
2	Rising, go to Padan Aram, to the house of Bethuel thy mother’s father, and take to thee from thence a wife from the daughters of Laban, thy mother’s brother.
3	And God Almighty will bless thee, and will make thee fruitful, and will multiply thee, and thou wert for an assembly of nations.
4	And he will give to thee the praise of Abraham, to thee, and to thy seed with thee; for thee to inherit the land of thy sojourning, which God gave to Abraham.
5	And Isaak will send away Jacob; and he will go to Padan Aram, to Laban the son of Bethuel the Syrian, brother of Rebekah, mother of Jacob and Esau.
6	And Esau will see that Isaak praised Jacob, and sent him away to Padan Aram, to take to him from thence a wife; in blessing him, and he will command him saying, Thou shalt not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan;
7	And Jacob will hear to his father, and to his mother, and will go to Padan Aram.
8	And Esau will see that the daughters of Canaan are evil in the eyes of Isaak his father.
9	And Esau will go to Ishmael, and will take Mahalath, daughter of Ishmael, Abraham’s son, sister of Nebajoth, to his wives, to him for a wife.
10	And Jacob will go from the well of the oath, and will come to Haran.
11	And he will light upon a place and he will remain there, for the sun was gone down: and he will take from the stones of the place and put at his head and will lie down in that place.
12	And he will dream, and behold a ladder placed in the earth, and the head of it reaching to the heavens: and behold the messengers of God ascending and descending upon it.
13	And behold, Jehovah was set upon it, and he will say, I Jehovah, the God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaak: the land which thou liest upon it, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed.
14	And thy seed was as the dust of the earth, And thou didst spread abroad to the sea and east, and north, and south: and in thee shall all the tribes of the earth be blessed, and in thy seed.
15	And behold, I am with thee, and I preserved thee in all which thou shalt go, and I turned thee back to this land; for I will not forsake thee, till that I have done what I said to thee.
16	And Jacob will awake from his sleep, and he will say, surely there is Jehovah in this place and I knew not.
17	And he will be afraid, and will Say, How terrible this place is not this but the house of God, and this the gate of the heavens?
18	And Jacob will rise early in the morning, and take the stone which he put at his head, and will set it a pillar, and pour oil upon its head.
19	And he will call the name of that place the house of God: and Ailam Luz the name of the city at the beginning.
20	And Jacob will vow a vow, saying, If God will be with me, and will preserve me in this way which I went, and gave to me bread to eat, and covering to put on,
21	And I turned back in peace to my father’s house; and Jehovah was to me for God.
22	And this stone which I set a pillar shall be the house of God, and all which thou shalt give to me, the tenth I will tithe it to thee.