1	And Jacob will lift up his feet and will go to the land of the sons of the east.
2	And he will see, and behold, a well in the field, and behold there three flocks of sheep lying by it; for from that well they will water the flocks and the great stone upon the mouth of the well.
3	And they gather there all the flocks; and they rolled away the stone from the mouth of the well and watered the sheep, and turned back the stone upon the mouth of the well to its place.
4	And Jacob will say to them, My brethren, whence are ye? and they will say, We are from Haran.
5	And he will say to them, knew ye Laban the son of Nahor? and they will say, We knew.
6	And he will say to them, Is health to him? and they will say, Health: Behold, Rachel his daughter came with the sheep.
7	And he will say, Behold, yet the day great, not the time of gathering the cattle; water ye the sheep, and go feed.
8	And they will say, We shall not be able, till that all the flocks shall be gathered together, and they roll the stone from the mouth of the well; and we water the sheep.
9	He yet speaking to them, and Rachel came with the sheep were to her father; for she fed them.
10	And it shall be when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban, his mother’s brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother’s brother, and Jacob will come near, and will roll away the stone from the mouth of the well, and will water the sheep of Laban his mother’s brother.
11	And Jacob will kiss Rachel, and will lift up his voice and weep.
12	And Jacob will announce to Rachel that he is her father’s brother, and that he is Rebekah’s son; and she will run and announce to her father.
13	And it shall be when Laban heard the hearing of Jacob his sister’s son, and he will run to meet him, and he will embrace him, and kiss him and bring him to his house, and he will recount to Laban all these words.
14	And Laban will say to him, Surely my bone and my flesh art thou: and he will dwell with him a month of days.
15	And Laban will say to Jacob, Because thou art my brother shalt thou serve me gratuitously? announce to me what thy reward.
16	And to Laban two daughters: the name to the great, Leah; and the name to the small, Rachel.
17	And the eyes of Leah weak, and Rachel was fair of form and fair of look.
18	And Jacob will love Rachel, and will say, I will serve thee seven years for Rachel thy daughter the small.
19	And Laban will say, Good for me to give her to thee rather than for me to give her to another man. Dwell with me.
20	And Jacob will serve for Rachel seven years, and they will be in his eyes as a few days in his loving her.
21	And Jacob will say to Laban, Give my wife, for the days were completed, and I will go in to her.
22	And Laban will gather together all the men of the place, and will make a drinking.
23	And it will be in the evening, and he will take Leah his daughter, and bring her to him, and he will go in to her.
24	And Laban will give to her, Zilpah his maid, to Leah his daughter a maid.
25	And it will be in the morning, and behold, she was Leak And he will say to Laban, What this thou didst to me? did I not serve with thee for Rachel? and wherefore didst thou deceive me?
26	And Laban will say, It shall not be done so in our place, to give the small before the first-born.
27	Complete her seven, and we will give to thee also this for work which thou shalt work with me yet other seven years.
28	And Jacob will do so, and he will complete her seven, and he will give to him Rachel his daughter to him for a wife.
29	And Laban will give to Rachel his daughter, Bilhah his maid to her for a maid.
30	And he will go in also to Rachel, and he will also love Rachel more than Leah, and he will serve with him yet other seven years.
31	And Jehovah will see that Leah was hated, and he will open her womb: and Rachel barren.
32	And Leah will conceive and will bring forth a son, and she will call his name Reuben: for she said that Jehovah saw my affliction, for now my husband will love me.
33	And she will yet again conceive and bear a son, and she will say that Jehovah heard that I am hated, and he will give to me this also; and she will call his name Simeon.
34	And she will conceive yet again, and will bear a son, and she will say, The time now, my husband will join himself to me, for I bare to him three sons: for this his name was called Levi.
35	And she will conceive yet again and will bear a son, and she will say, This time I will confess to Jehovah: for this she called his name Judah; and she will stand from bearing.