1	And Jacob will lift up his eyes and will see, and behold Esau came, and with him four hundred men. And he will divide the children to Leah and to Rachel and to the two maids.
2	And he set the maids and their children first, and Leah and her children behind, and Rachel and Joseph behind them.
3	And he passed through before them, and he will bow himself upon the earth seven times till he brought himself near to his brother.
4	And Esau will run to his meeting and he will embrace him and will fall upon his neck and will kiss him, and they will weep.
5	And he will lift up his eyes and will see the women and the children, and he will say, To whom these to thee? And he will say, The children with whom God compassionated thy servant.
6	And the maids will draw near, they and their children, and they will bow themselves.
7	And Leah also will draw near, and her children, and they will bow themselves; and after, Joseph will draw near and Rachel, and they will prostrate themselves.
8	And he will say, What to thee all this camp which I met? and he will say, To find grace in thine eyes, my lord.
9	And Esau will say, There is much to me, my brother; what is to thee shall be to thee.
10	And Jacob will say, Nay, now, if now I found grace in thine eyes, and take my gift from my hand, for, for this, I saw thy face as seeing the face of God, and thou wilt be satisfied with me.
11	Take now my blessing which was brought to thee, for God compassionated me, and because all things are to me; and he will press upon him, and he will take.
12	And he will say, We will remove and go, and I will go before thee.
13	And he will say to him, My lord knew that the children are tender, and the sheep and the oxen bringing forth with me, and they overdrive them one day all the flock will die.
14	Now my lord, shall pass through before his servant, and I will drive out softly, according to the foot of the work before me and according to the foot of the children, till I shall come to my lord to Seir.
15	And Esau will say, I will leave now with thee, from the people which are to me; and he will say, For what this? I shall find grace in the eyes of my lord.
16	And Esau will turn back in that day on his way to Seir.
17	And Jacob will remove to the booths, and he will build for himself a house, and he made booths for his cattle; for this he called the name of the place Booths.
18	And Jacob will go to Shalem, a city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, in his going from Padan Aram; and he will encamp before the city.
19	And he will buy a part of the field where he spread there his tent, from the hand of the sons of Hamor, the father of Shechem, for a hundred lambs.
20	And he will set there an altar, and he will call upon it, God the God of Israel.