1	And Dinah, the daughter of Leah, which she brought forth to Jacob, will go forth to see the daughters of the land.
2	And Shechem will see her, the son of Hamor the Hivite, chief of the land; will take her, and lie with her, and will humble her.
3	And his soul will cleave to Dinah, the daughter of Jacob, and he will love the maiden, and he will speak to the heart of the maiden.
4	And Shechem will say to Hamor his father, saying, Take to me this maid for a wife.
5	And Jacob heard that he defiled Dinah his daughter: and his sons were with his cattle in the field, and Jacob was silent till their coming.
6	And Hamor the father of Shechem will go forth to Jacob to speak to him.
7	And the sons of Jacob came from the field when they having heard: and the men will be grieved, and it will be kindled to them exceedingly because he did folly in Israel, to lie with Jacob’s daughter; and thus it shall not be done.
8	And Hamor will speak with them, saying, The soul of Shechem my son, was attached with his soul to your daughter; now give her to him for a wife.
9	And contract ye marriages with us; ye shall give your daughters to us, and ye shall take our daughters to you.
10	And ye shall dwell with us, and the land shall be before you; dwell ye and traffic in it, and take possession in it.
11	And Shechem will say to her father, and to her brethren, Shall I find favor in your eyes? and what ye shall say to me I will give.
12	Increase to me greatly the dowry and gift, and I will give according to that ye shall say to me; and ye shall give to me this maiden for a wife.
13	And the sons of Jacob will answer Shechem and Hamor his father with deceit, and will say, Because he defiled Dinah their sister.
14	And they will say to them, We shall not be able to do this word, to give our sister to a man which to him is uncircumcision; for this a reproach to us.
15	But in this will we consent to you, if ye will be as we to circumcise to you every male;
16	And we will give our daughters to you, and we will take your daughters to us, and we will dwell with you and be one people.
17	And if ye will not listen to us to be circumcised, and we will take out daughter and depart.
18	And their words will be pleasing in the eyes of Hamor, and in the eyes of Shechem, Hamor’s son.
19	And the youth deferred not to do the word, for he delighted in Jacob’s daughter, and he was honorable more than all his father’s house.
20	And Hamor will come, and Shechem his son, to the gate of their city, and they will speak to the men of the city, saying,
21	These men they are living peacefully with us, and they shall dwell in the land, and traffic in it; and the land, behold, being broad to the hands before them: we will take their daughters to us for wives, and give our daughters to them.
22	Only in this will the men consent to us to dwell with us to be for one people, in the circumcising to us every male according as they having been circumcised.
23	Their cattle and their possession and all their quadrupeds, shall they not be to us? only we will consent to them, and they will dwell with us.
24	And to Hamor and to Shechem his son, will listen all going out of the gate of the city: and they will circumcise every male, all going out of the gate of the city.
25	And it will be in the third day, in their having pain, and the two sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah’s brethren, will take a man his sword, and will go against the city securely, and will kill every male.
26	And they killed Hamor and Shechem his son, with the mouth of the sword; and they will take Dinah from the house of Shechem, and go forth.
27	The sons of Jacob came upon the wounded, and they will plunder the city, because they defiled their sister.
28	Their sheep and their oxen and their asses, and what was in the city, and what in the field, they took.
29	And all their force and all their little ones, and their wives they led captive, and they will plunder all which is in the house.
30	And Jacob will say to Simeon and to Levi, Ye troubled me to make me evil to him dwelling in the land to the Canaanites, and to the Perizzites and I men of number, and they will gather together and smite me, and I all be destroyed, and my house.
31	And they will say, Shall he do to our sister as an harlot?