1	And God will say to Jacob, Arise, go up to the house of God and dwell there: and make there an altar to God, having been seen to thee in thy fleeing from the face of Esau thy brother.
2	And Jacob will say to his house, and to all which are with him, Put away the strange gods which are among you, and be cleansed and change your garments.
3	And we will arise and go to the house of God; and I will make there an altar to God, having answered me in the day of my distress; and he will be with me in the way which I go.
4	And they will give to Jacob all the strange gods which are in their hand and the earrings which are in their ears, and Jacob will hide them under the turpentine tree which is in Shechem.
5	And they will remove; and the terror of God will be upon the cities which are surrounding them; and they pursued not after the sons of Jacob.
6	And Jacob will come to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan (this the house of God), he and all the people which are with him.
7	And he will build there an altar, and will call the place, God, the house of God; for there God appeared to him in his fleeing from the face of his brother.
8	And Deborah, Rebekah’s nurse, will die, and be buried from below the house of God, under the oak: and its name shall be called, The Oak of Weeping.
9	And God will be seen to Jacob yet again in his going from Padan Aram; and he will bless him.
10	And God will say to him, Thy name, Jacob: shall no more be called thy name Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name; and he will call his name Israel.
11	And God will say to him, I am God Almighty: be fruitful and multiply; a nation and an assembly of nations shall be from thee, and kings shall come forth from thy loins.
12	And the land which I gave to Abraham and to Isaak, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed after thee will I give this land.
13	And God will go up from him in the place in which he spake with him.
14	And Jacob will set up a pillar in the place which God spake with him; a pillar of stone: and he will pour out upon it a libation, and he will pour out upon it oil.
15	And Jacob will call the name of the place which God spake with him there, The House of God.
16	And they will remove from the House of God; and there will be yet a measure of land to come to Ephrath: and Rachel will bring forth, and she will be hard in bringing forth.
17	And it will be in her being hard in bringing forth, and the midwife will say to her, Thou shalt not fear, for also this a son to thee.
18	And it will be in her soul going forth (for she will die) and she will call his name the son of my strength: and his father called him the son of the right hand.
19	And Rachel will die, and she will be buried in the way to Ephrath, it is the house of bread.
20	And Jacob will set up a pillar upon her grave: this the pillar of Rachel’s grave to this day.
21	And Israel will remove and will extend the tent from afar off to the tower of Edar.
22	And it will be in the dwelling of Israel in that land, and Reuben will go, and will lie with Bilhah, his father’s concubine: and Israel will hear. And the sons of Jacob will be twelve.
23	The sons of Leah, the first-born of Jacob, Reuben; and Simeon and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulon;
24	The sons of Rachel, Joseph and Benjamin.
25	The sons of Bilhah, Rachel’s maid: Dan and Naphtali;
26	The sons of Zilpah; Leah’s maid: Gad and Asher. These the sons of Jacob which were born to him in Padan Aram.
27	And Jacob will go to Isaak his father to Mamra, the city of Arba (this Hebron), where Abraham sojourned there, and Isaak.
28	And the days of Isaak will be a hundred years and eighty years.
29	And Isaak will expire and will die, and will be gathered to his people, old and full of days; and Esau and Jacob his sons will bury him.