1	And these the generations of Esau; this is Adam.
2	Esau took his wives from the daughters of Canaan. Adah the daughter of Elon, the Hittite, and Aholibamah, daughter of Anah, daughter of Zibeon, the Hivite;
3	And Bashemath, daughter of Ishmael, sister of Nebajoth.
4	And Adah will bear to Esau, Eliphaz; and Bashemath bare Reuel;
5	And Aholibamah bare Jeush, and Jaalam and Korah; these the sons of Esau which were born to him in the land of Canaan.
6	And Esau will take his wives, and his sons and his daughters and all the souls of his house, and his cattle and all his quadrupeds, and all his acquisition which he acquired in the land of Canaan; and he will go to the land from the face of Jacob his brother.
7	For their possessions were much above dwelling together; and the land of their sojournings will not be able to bear them from the face of their possessions.
8	And Esau will dwell in mount Seir. Esau, this is Adam.
9	And these the generations of Esau, the father of Adam, in mount Seir.
10	These the names of the sons of Esau: Eliphaz, son of Adah, the wife of Esau; Reuel, son of Bashemath, the wife of Esau.
11	And the sons of Eliphaz shall be Teman, Omar, Zepho and Gatam and Kenaz.
12	And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz, Esau’s son; and she will bear to Eliphaz, Amalek; these the sons of Adah, Esau’s wife.
13	And these the sons of Reuel; Nahath and Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah: these were the sons of Bashemath, Emu’s wife.
14	And these were the sons of Aholibamah, daughter of Anah, daughter of Zibeon, Esau’s wife; and she will bear to Esau, Jeush and Jaalam and Korab.
15	These the chiefs the sons of Esau, the sons of Eliphaz the first-born of Esau: chief Teman, chief Omar, chief Zepho, chief Kenaz.
16	Chief Korah, chief Gatam, chief Amalek: these the chiefs of Eliphaz in the land of Adam: these the sons of Adah.
17	And these the sons of Reuel, the son of Esau; chief Nahath, chief Zerah, chief Shammah, chief Mizzah: these the chiefs of Reuel in the land of Adam: these the sons of Bashemath, Esau’s wife.
18	And these the sons of Aholibamah, Esau’s wife: chief Jeush, chief Jaalam, chief Korah: these the chiefs of Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah, Esau’s wife.
19	These the sons of Esau, and these the chiefs of Adam.
20	These the sons of Seir the Horite, dwelling in the land; Lotan and Shobal, and Zibeon and Anah,
21	And Dishon and Ezer, and Dishan: these the chiefs of the Horites the sons of Seir in the land of Adam.
22	And the sons of Lotan were Hori and Heman; and Lotan’s sister Timna.
23	And these the sons of Shobal: Alvan, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shepho and Onam.
24	And these the sons of Zibeon; and Ajah and Anah; this Anah which found the springs in the desert, in feeding the asses for Zibeon his father.
25	And these the sons of Anah: Dishon, and Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah.
26	And these the sons of Dishon: Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran and Cheran.
27	These the sons of Ezer: Bilhan and Zaavan and Akan.
28	These the sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.
29	These the chiefs of the Horites: chief Lotan, chief Shobal, chief Zibeon, chief Anah,
30	Chief Dishon, chief Ezer, chief Dishan: these the chiefs of the Horites, to the chiefs in the land of Seir.
31	And these the kings which reigned in the land of Edom, before a king reigned over the sons of Israel.
32	And Bela will reign in Edom, the son of Beor; and the name of his city Dinhabah.
33	And Bela will die, and Jobab will reign instead of him, the son of Zerah from Bozrah.
34	And Jobab will die, and Husham from the land of Temani will reign in his stead.
35	And Husham will die, and Hadad will reign in his stead, the son of Bedad, having smitten Midian in the field Moab: and the name of his city, Avith.
36	And Hadad will die, and Samlah from Masrekah will reign in his stead.
37	And Samlah will die, and Saul will reign in his stead, from Rehoboth of the river.
38	And Saul will die, and Baal-Hanan will reign in his stead, the son of Achbor.
39	And Baal-Hanan will die, the son of Achbor, and Hadar will reign in his stead: and the name of his city, Pau; and the name of his wife, Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Me-Zahab.
40	And these the names of the chiefs of Esau according to their tribes, according to their places, in their names: chief Timnah, chief Alvah, chief Jeheth,
41	Chief Aholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon,
42	Chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar.
43	Chief Magdiel, chief Iram: these the chiefs of Edom according to their restings in the land of their possessions: this is Esau the father of Adam.