1	And Jacob will dwell in the land of his father’s sojournings, in the land of Canaan.
2	These the generations of Jacob: Joseph the son of seventeen years, was feeding the sheep with his brethren, and this youth with the sons of Bilhah and with the sons of Zilpah, his father’s wives: and Joseph will bring their evil slander to their father.
3	And Israel loved Joseph above all his sons, for to him he was the son of old age: and he made for him a tunic (reaching to the soles of the feet).
4	And his brethren will see that their father loved him above all his brethren, and they will hate him, and will not be able to speak to him for peace.
5	And Joseph will dream a dream, and he will announce to his brethren: and they will add yet to hate him.
6	And he will say to them, Hear, now, this dream which I dreamed.
7	And behold, we binding sheaves in the midst of the field; and behold, my sheaf arose, and also stood; and behold your sheaves will turn about and will worship to my sheaf.
8	And his brethren will say to him, Reigning, shalt thou reign over us? or ruling, shalt thou rule over us? And they will add yet to hate him for his dreams and for his words.
9	And he will dream yet another dream, and he will recount it to his brethren, and he will say, Behold I dreamed a dream yet again: and behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars worshipping to me.
10	And he will recount to his father and to his brethren. And his father will rebuke him, and will say to him, What this dream which thou didst dream? Coming, shall I and thy mother and thy brethren come to worship to thee upon the earth?
11	And his brethren will envy him; and his father observed the word.
12	And his brethren will go to feed their father’s sheep in Shechem.
13	And Israel will say to Joseph, Are not thy brethren feeding in Shechem? Come, and I will send thee to them. And he will say, Behold me.
14	And he will say to him, Go, now, see the peace of thy brethren, and the peace of the sheep; and turn back to me word: and he will send him from the valley of Hebron and he will go to Shechem.
15	And a man will find him, and behold, he wandered in the field. And the man will ask him, saying, What wilt thou seek?
16	And he will say, I am seeking my brethren; announce to me now where they are feeding.
17	And the man will say, They -removed from this; for I heard them saying, We will go to Dothan. And Joseph will go after his brethren and will find them in Dothan.
18	And they will see him from far off and before he will draw near to them, and they will act deceitfully with him, to kill him.
19	And a man will say to his brother, Behold, this lord of dreams coming.
20	And now, come, and we will kill him, and throw him into one of the pits; and we will say, An evil beast devoured him: and we shall see what will be his dreams.
21	And Reuben will hear, and will take him away out of their hands; and he will say, We will not strike the soul.
22	And Reuben will say to them, Ye shall not pour out blood; cast him into this pit which is in the desert, and ye shall not stretch forth the hand upon him; in order to take him away out of their hands to bring him back to his father.
23	And it shall be as Joseph came to his brethren, and they will strip off his tunic, the tunic reaching to the soles of the feet which was upon him.
24	And they will take him and will throw him into the pit; and the pit empty; water not in it.
25	And they will sit down to eat bread, and they will lift up their eyes, and will see, and behold travelers, Ishmaelites come from Gilead, and their camels bearing perfumes and balsam and myrrh, going to carry down to Egypt.
26	And Judah will say to his brethren, What the profit that we shall kill our brother, and conceal his blood?
27	Come, and we will sell him to the Ishmaelites, and our hand shall not be upon him; for he our brother, our flesh: and his brethren will hear.
28	And men will pass by, Midianites, merchants; and they will draw and bring up Joseph from the pit, and they will sell Joseph to the Ishmaelites for twenty of silver: and they will bring Joseph to Egypt.
29	And Reuben turned back to the pit; and behold, Joseph not in the pit: and he rent his garments.
30	And he will turn back to his brethren, and he will say, The child is not: and I, where shall I go?
31	And they will take Joseph’s tunic, and will slaughter a he-goat of the goats, and will dip the tunic in the blood.
32	And they will send the tunic, reaching down to the soles of the feet, and will bring to their father, and they will say, We found this: recognise now, is this thy son’s tunic or not?
33	And he will recognise it, and will say, My son’s tunic an evil beast devoured him: tearing in pieces, he tare Joseph in pieces.
34	And Jacob will rend his garments, and will put sackcloth upon his loins, and will mourn for his son many days.
35	And all his sons and all his daughters, will rise up to comfort him; and he will refuse to be comforted; and will say, For I will go down to my son mourning to hades; and his father will weep for him.
36	And the Midianites sold him in Egypt to Potiphar, an eunuch of Pharaoh chief of the cooks.