1	And Joseph was brought down to Egypt: and Potiphar will buy him, Pharaoh’s eunuch, chief of the cooks, an Egyptian man, from the hand of the Ishmaelites who brought him down there.
2	And Jehovah will be with Joseph, and the man will be prospering: and he will be in the house of his lord the Egyptian.
3	And his lord will see that Jehovah is with him, and all that he did Jehovah prospering in his hand.
4	And Joseph will find grace in his eyes, and he will serve him, and he will appoint him over his house, and all which is to him he gave into his hand.
5	And it will be from the time he appointed him over his house, and over all which is to him, and Jehovah will bless the Egyptian’s house on account of Joseph; and the blessing of Jehovah will be upon all which is to him in the house and in the field.
6	And he will let go all which is to him into the hand of Joseph; and he will not, know anything except the bread which he is eating: and Joseph will be fair of form, and fair of look.
7	And it will be after these words, and his lord’s wife will lift up her eyes to Joseph, and she will say, Lie with me.
8	And he will refuse, and will say to his lord’s wife, Behold, my lord knew not what is with me in the house, and all which is to him he gave into my hand;
9	Nothing is great in this house above me: and he kept not back anything from me except thee, because thou his wife: and how shall I do this great evil and sin before God?
10	And it will be in her speaking to Joseph day by day, and he listened not to her to he by her, to be with her.
11	And it will be about this day, and he will come into the house to do his work: and no man from the men of the house there in the house.
12	And she will seize him by his garment, saying, Lie with me. And he will let go his garment in her hand, and will flee and come forth without.
13	And it will be when she saw that he let go his garment in her hand and will flee without,
14	And she will call the men of her house and will say to them, saying, See ye, he brought to us a Hebrew man to mock us: he came to me to lie with me, and I shall cry with a great voice.
15	And it will be as he heard me that I lifted up my voice and I will cry, and he will let go his garment by me, will flee and come forth without.
16	And she will leave his garment by her till his lord came to his house.
17	And she will speak to him according to these words, saying, The Hebrew servant which thou broughtest to us, came in to me to mock me.
18	And it will be as I lifted up my voice, and I will cry out, and he will let go his garment by me and will flee without.
19	And it will be as his lord heard the words of his wife which she spake to him, saying, According to these words thy servant did to me; and his anger will be kindled.
20	And Joseph’s lord will take him and put him into the house of the fortress, the place where the king’s prisoners were bound; and he shall be there in the house of the fortress.
21	And Jehovah will be with Joseph, and will extend to him kindness, and will give his grace in the eyes of the chief of the house of the fortress.
22	And the chief of the house of the fortress will give into Joseph’s hand all the prisoners that were in the house of the fortress; and all which was done there he was doing.
23	The chief of the house of the fortress saw not all the things in his hand, because Jehovah was with him: and what he did Jehovah prospering.