1	And Adam knew Life, his wife, and she will conceive and bear Cain, and said, I obtained a man of Jehovah.
2	And she will add to bear his brother Abel; and Abel shall be a feeder of sheep, and Cain was a laborer of the earth.
3	And it shall be at the end of days, and Cain shall bring in from the fruit of the earth an offering to Jehovah.
4	And Abel, he also brought in the first-born of his sheep, and their fat. And Jehovah will look to Abel and to his gift.
5	And to Cain and to his offering he looked not: and Cain will be very angry, and his countenance will fall.
6	And Jehovah will say to Cain, Why art thou angry, and why does thy countenance fall?
7	If thou shalt do well thou shalt be lifted up; and if thou shalt not do well, sin lies at the entrance; and to thee his desire, and thou shalt rule over him.
8	And Cain will speak to Abel his brother; and it shall be in their being in the field, Cain will rise up against Abel his brother, and will kill him.
9	And Jehovah will say to Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? and he will say, I know not: am I my brother’s watcher?
10	And he will say, What didst thou? the voice of thy brother’s bloods, crying out to me from the earth.
11	And now cursed art thou, from the earth, which opened her mouth to take thy brother’s bloods from thy hand.
12	When thou shalt work the earth she shall not add to give her strength to thee. Wandering and fleeing shalt thou be in the earth.
13	And Cain will say to Jehovah, My sin is great, above bearing.
14	Lo, thou didst drive me out this day from above the face of the earth, and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be wandering and fleeing in the earth; and it shall be, every one finding me will kill me.
15	And Jehovah will say to him, Therefore, every one killing Cain, he shall be avenged seven fold. And Jehovah will put a sign upon Cain, lest any finding him, smite him.
16	And Cain went out from the face of Jehovah, and dwelt in the land of Nod, eastward of Eden.
17	And Cain will know his wife, and she will conceive and bear Enoch: and he will be building a city, and will call the name of the city after the name of his son Enoch.
18	And to Enoch shall be born Irad; and Irad begat Mehujael; and Mehujael begat Methusael; and Methusael begat Lamech.
19	And Lamech shall take to him two women: the name of the one Adah, and the name of the second, Zillah.
20	And Adah will bear Jabal; he was the father of him remaining in the tent, and riches.
21	And his brother’s name Jubal; he was father of all laying hold of the harp and pipe.
22	And Zillah, she also will bear Tubal Cain, sharpening every cutting instrument of brass and iron: and Tubal Cain’s sister was Naamah.
23	And Lamech will say his wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice, ye wives of Lamech, and give ear to my word: for I killed a man to my wound, and a son to my cutting.
24	If Cain shall be avenged seven fold, also Lamech seventy and seven.
25	And Adam will know his wife again, and she will bear a son, and she will call his name Seth: for God set me a second seed instead of Abel, for Cain slew him.
26	And to Seth, to him also a son shall be born, and he will call his name Enos: then it was begun to call in the name of Jehovah.