1	And it will be after these words, The cup-bearer of the king of Egypt, and the baker, sinned to their lord the king of Egypt.
2	And Pharaoh will be angry against his two eunuchs, against the chief of the cup-bearers, and against the chief of the bakers.
3	And he will give them in guard in the house of the chief of the cooks, to the house of the fortress, the place where Joseph was bound there.
4	And the chief of the cooks will appoint Joseph over them, and he will serve them; and they will be days in guard.
5	And they will dream a dream, they two, a man his dream in one night, a man according to the interpretation of his dream; the cup-bearer and the baker which were to the king of Egypt, who were bound in the house of the fortress.
6	And Joseph will come to them in the morning, and will see them, and behold, they sad.
7	And he will ask Pharaoh’s eunuchs which were with him in guard of the house of his lord, saying, Why are your faces evil this day?
8	And they will say to him, We dreamed a dream, and there is none interpreting it And Joseph will say to them, Are not interpretations to God? Relate now to me.
9	And the chief of the cup-bearers will relate his dream to Joseph, and will say to him, In my dream, and behold a vine before me;
10	And in the vine three shoots; and this as flourishing, its leaf went forth; the clusters of grapes were ripened.
11	And Pharaoh’s cup in my hand; and I shall take the grapes and press them into Pharaoh’s cup, and I shall give the cup into Pharaoh’s hand.
12	And Joseph will say to him, This its interpretation: The three shoots they are three days.
13	Yet in three days Pharaoh will lift up thy head, and restore thee to thy place, and thou shalt give Pharaoh’s cup into his hand, according to thy first judgment, when thou wert his cup-bearer.
14	But remember me with thyself, when it shall be well to thee, and now do kindness to me, and remember me to Pharaoh and bring me out of this house.
15	For by stealing, I was stolen from the land of the Hebrews: and also here, I have not done anything that they put me in the pit.
16	And the chief of the bakers see that he interpreted good, and he will say to Joseph, I also in my dream, and behold, three wicker baskets of white bread upon my head.
17	And in the high basket of all, food of Pharaoh, the work of baking; and the birds ate them from the basket above my head.
18	And Joseph will answer and say, This its interpretation: the three baskets, they are three days;
19	Yet in three days, Pharaoh will lift up thy head above thee, and hang thee upon a tree, and the birds shall eat thy flesh from thee.
20	And it will be in the third day, the day of the birth of Pharaoh, and he will make a drinking to all his servants; and he will lift up the head of the chief of the cup-bearers, and the head of the chief of the bakers, in the midst of his servants.
21	And he will restore the chief of the cup-bearers to his possession; and he will give the cup into Pharaoh’s hand.
22	And he will hang the chief of the bakers, according to what Joseph interpreted to them.
23	And the chief of the cup-bearers did not remember Joseph, and he will forget him.