1	And Joseph will fall upon his father’s face, and will weep over him and he will kiss him.
2	And Joseph will command his servants the physicians, to embalm his father: and the physicians embalmed Israel.
3	And they will fill up forty days for him: for so will they fill up the days of the embalmed: and the Egyptians will weep for him seventy days.
4	And the days of his weeping will pass over, and Joseph will speak to the house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I found grace in thine eyes, speak now in the ears of Pharaoh, saying,
5	My father caused me to swear, saying, Behold I am dying: in my grave which I dug for me in the land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me. And at this time will I now go up and bury my father, and I will turn back.
6	And Pharaoh will say, Go up and bury thy father, according to what he caused thee to swear.
7	And Joseph will go up to bury his father; and all the servants of Pharaoh will go up with him, the old men of his house, and all the old men of the land of Egypt.
8	And all the house of Joseph and his brethren, and the house of his father: only their little ones and their sheep and their oxen they left in the land of Goshen.
9	And also will go up with him chariot, also horseman; and there will be a very great camp.
10	And they will come to the threshing floor of Atad, which is beyond Jordan, and they will mourn there a mourning great and strong exceedingly: and he will make for his father a mourning, seven days.
11	And the Canaanites dwelling in the land will see the mourning in the threshing-floor of Atad, and they will say, A great mourning this to the Egyptians; for this its name was called, the Mourning of the Egyptians, which is beyond Jordan.
12	And his sons will do to him thus according to what he commanded them.
13	And his sons will take him up to the land of Cannon, and they will bury him in the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham bought with the field for the possession of a grave, from Ephron the Hittites before Mamra.
14	And Joseph will turn back to Egypt, he and his brethren and all going up with him, to bury his father, after they buried his father.
15	And Joseph’s brethren will see that their father died, and they will say to him, Joseph will lie in wait for us, and turning back, will turn back to us all the evil which we did to him.
16	And they will come forth to Joseph, saying, Thy father commanded before his death, saying,
17	So shall ye say to Joseph, I pray thee now take away the trespass of thy brethren and their sin; for they did to thee evil: and at this time now take away upon the trespass of the servants of the God of thy father. And Joseph will weep in their speaking to him.
18	And they will come and will fall down before him, and they will say, Behold, we are for servants to thee.
19	And Joseph will say to them, Ye shall not fear, for I am for God.
20	And you, ye even purposed evil against me; God purposed it for good, for the sake of doing as this day, to preserve alive much people.
21	And now ye shall not fear: I will give you to eat, and your little ones. And he will comfort them, and will speak to their hearts.
22	And Joseph will dwell in Egypt, he and the house of his father: and Joseph will live a hundred and ten years.
23	And Joseph will see sons to Ephraim of the third generation; also the sons of Machir, son of Manasseh, were brought forth upon Joseph’s knees.
24	And Joseph will say to his brethren, I am dying; and God reviewing, will review you, and will bring you up from this land to the land which he sware to Abraham, to Isaak and to Jacob.
25	And Joseph will cause the sons of Israel to swear, saying, God reviewing, will review you and bring ye up my bones from here.
26	And Joseph will die, the son of a hundred and ten years; and they will embalm him and will put in an ark in Egypt.