1	And it shall be when man begins to multiply upon the face of the earth, and daughters were born to them,
2	And the sons of God will see the daughters of Adam that they are good, and they will take to them wives of all which they chose.
3	And Jehovah will say, My spirit will not forever be low in man, for that he is flesh and his days were one hundred and twenty years.
4	Giants were in the earth in these days, and also after that, when the sons of God shall come in to the daughters of man and they shall bring forth to them which are men of old, men of name.
5	And Jehovah will see that great the evil of man in the earth, and every formation of the thoughts of his heart only evil all the days.
6	And Jehovah will lament that he made man in the earth, and he will be grieved at his heart.
7	And Jehovah will say, I will wipe out man whom I formed from above the face of the earth; from man even to cattle, even to the creeping thing and even to the birds of the heavens; and I was grieved that I made them.
8	And Noah found grace in the eyes of Jehovah.
9	These the generations of Noah; a just man, and was complete in his generations: Noah walked with God.
10	And Noah shall beget three sons, Shem, Ham and Japheth.
11	And the earth shall be corrupted to the face of God; and the earth shall be filled with violence.
12	And God shall see the earth, and lo, it was corrupted, for all flesh corrupted its way upon the earth.
13	And God will say to Noah, The end of all flesh came in to my face, for the earth was filled with violence from the face of them, and behold me destroying them from the earth.
14	Make to thee a box of pitch wood; nests shalt thou make in the ark, and cover it from within and from without with pitch.
15	And this which thou shalt make it, three hundred cubits the length of the ark; fifty cubits its breadth, and thirty cubits its height.
16	Light shall thou make to the ark, and to a cubit shalt thou complete it from the ascent; and the entrance of the ark thou shalt set in its side; the lower parts the two and the three shalt thou make.
17	And I, lo I, will bring in an inundation of waters upon the earth to destroy all flesh in which is the breath of life from underneath the heavens; all which is in the earth shall die.
18	And I set up my covenant with thee; and thou shalt come in to the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons’ wives with thee.
19	And from every living thing of all flesh, two of all shalt thou bring in to the ark, to preserve alive with thee: male and female shall they be.
20	From birds according to its kind, and cattle according to their kind; of every creeping thing of the earth after its kind, two from all shall come to thee to preserve alive.
21	And take thou to thee of all food which shall be eaten, and thou shalt collect to thee, and it shall be to thee and to them for food.
22	And Noah will do all which God commanded him; so did he.