1	And God will remember Noah, and every living thing, and all the cattle that with him in the ark: and God will make a wind to pass over the earth and the waters will settle down.
2	And the fountains of the deep, and the sluices of the heavens shall be shut up, and the rains from the heavens shall be withheld.
3	And the waters shall turn back from over the earth, going and turning back, and the waters shall fail from the end of fifty and one hundred days.
4	And the ark shall rest in the seventh month in the seventeenth day of the month upon the mountains of Ararat.
5	And the waters were going and diminishing until the tenth month: in the tenth, in the one of the month, the heads of the mountains were seen.
6	And it shall be from the end of forty days Noah shall open the window of the ark which he made.
7	And he shall send forth the raven, and it shall go forth, going and turning back, till the waters dry up from over the earth.
8	And he shall send forth the dove from with him to see if the waters were diminished from the face of the earth.
9	And the dove found not rest to the hollow of her foot, and she will turn back to him to the ark, for the waters are over the face of all the earth; and he will send forth his hand and will take her and will cause her to come to him to the ark.
10	And he will wait yet again other seven days, and he will add to send forth the dove from the ark.
11	And the dove will come in to him at the time of evening, and lo, an olive leaf plucked off, in her mouth. And Noah will know that the waters were diminished from over the earth.
12	And he will wait yet again, other seven days, and will send forth the dove; and she will not add to turn back to him yet again.
13	And it shall be in the one and six hundredth year, in the beginning, in one of the month, the waters were diminished from over the earth: and Noah will turn away the covering of the ark, and he will see and behold the face of the earth was dry.
14	And in the second month, in the seven and twentieth day of the month, the earth shall be dry.
15	And God will speak to Noah, saying,
16	Come forth from the ark, thou, and thy wife, and thy sons and thy sons’ wives with thee.
17	Every living thins which is with thee, from all flesh, of birds and of cattle, and of every creeping thing creeping upon the earth, bring forth with thee, and increase ye abundantly in the earth and be fruitful and multiply upon the earth.
18	And Noah shall come forth, and his sons and his wife, and his sons’ wives with him.
19	Every living thing, every creeping thing, and every bird, every thing creeping upon the earth according to their families shall come forth from the ark.
20	And Noah will build an altar to Jehovah, and will take from all clean cattle, and from all clean birds, and will bring up a burnt offering upon the altar.
21	And Jehovah smelled a smell of sweetness; and Jehovah will say in his heart, I will not gather to curse the earth yet again on account of man; for the imagination of man’s heart is evil from his youth: and I will not gather yet again to smite every living thing according to which I did.
22	Yet all the days of the earth, seed and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.