1	And God will praise Noah and his sons, and will say to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth.
2	And the fear of you, and the dread of you, shall be upon every living thing of the earth, and upon every bird of the heavens, upon every thing which shall creep along the earth and upon all the fishes of the sea; into your hand they were given.
3	Every creeping thing which it lives shall be food to you as the green herb. I gave you all things.
4	But the flesh with its breath, its blood ye shall not eat.
5	And surely, your blood of your lives I will search out, from the hand of every living thing I will search it out, and from the hand of man; from the hand of a man’s brother I will search out the life of man.
6	He pouring out man’s blood, by man his blood shall be poured out: for in the image of God he made man.
7	And you, be ye fruitful and multiply, and increase abundantly in the earth, and multiply in it.
8	And God will speak to Noah and to his sons, saying,
9	And I, behold I establish my covenant with you and with your seed after you.
10	And with every breathing thing which is with you, of birds, of cattle, and of every living thing of the earth with you, from all going out of the ark, to every living thing of the earth.
11	And I established my covenant with you; and all flesh shall not be dissipated any more by the waters of a flood and there shall not be any more a flood to destroy the earth.
12	And God will say, This is a sign of the covenant which I give between me and between you, and between every breathing thing living which is with you for future generations.
13	I have set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a sign of a covenant between me and between the earth.
14	And it shall be in my giving a cloud upon the earth, and the bow was seen in the cloud.
15	And I remembered my covenant which is between me and between you, and between every breathing thing living of all flesh; and the waters shall not any more become a flood to destroy all flesh.
16	The bow shall be in the cloud; and seeing it to remember the lasting covenant between God and between every breathing thing living of all flesh which is upon the earth.
17	And God will say to Noah, This the sign of the covenant which I established between me and between all flesh which is upon the earth.
18	And the sons of Noah going forth from the ark shall be Shem and Ham and Japheth; and Ham he the father of Canaan.
19	These the three sons of Noah; and from these was the whole earth disseminated.
20	And Noah will begin a man of the earth, and he will plant a vineyard.
21	And he will drink of the wine and he will be intoxicated, and will be uncovered within his tent.
22	And Ham the father of Canaan will see the nakedness of his father, and he will declare to his two brethren without.
23	And Shem and Japheth will take a garment and they will put upon their two shoulders, and will go backwards and will cover the nakedness of their father: and their faces backwards, and they will not see the nakedness of their father.
24	And Noah will awake from his wine and will know what his young son did to him.
25	And he will say, Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be to his brethren.
26	And he will say, Praised Jehovah, God of Shem; Canaan shall be servant to him.
27	God will dilate Japheth; he shall dwell in the tents of Shem; and Canaan shall be servant to him.
28	And Noah shall live after the flood three hundred years and fifty years.
29	And all the days of Noah shall be nine hundred years and fifty years: and he shall die.