1	And David will speak to Jehovah the words of this song in the day Jehovah delivered him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul:
2	And he will say, Jehovah my rock and my fastness and my deliverer;
3	The God of my rock; I will trust in him: My shield and the horn of my salvation, my height and my refuge; My saviour; thou wilt save me from violence.
4	Praising, I will call Jehovah and shall be saved from mine enemies.
5	For the breakers of death surrounded me The torrents of Beilal will terrify me;
6	The pangs of hades surrounded me; The snares of death anticipated me;
7	In straits to me I will call Jehovah, And to God will I call, And he will hear my voice from his temple, And my cry in his ears.
8	And the earth will shake and tremble, The foundation of the heavens will be disturbed, And they will shake, for it kindled to him.
9	Smoke went up in his anger, And fire from his mouth shall consume: Coals were kindled from it.
10	He will incline the heavens and come down; And darkness under his feet.
11	And he will ride upon a cherub and fly: And he will be seen upon the wings of the wind.
12	And he will set darkness round about him for booths, The gatherings of waters the darkness of clouds.
13	From the shining before him were coals of fire kindled:
14	Jehovah will thunder from the heavens, And the Most High will give his voice.
15	He will send arrows and scatter them lightning, and put them in commotion.
16	The torrents of the sea will be seen, The foundations of the habitable globe will be uncovered, In the rebuke of Jehovah, from the breath of the spirit of his anger.
17	He will send from height, he will take me; He will draw me out of many waters:
18	He will deliver me from my strong enemy, From them hating me, for they were strong above me.
19	They will anticipate me in the day of misfortune, And Jehovah will be a support to me:
20	And he will bring me forth to a wide place; He will deliver me for he delighted in me.
21	Jehovah will recompense me according to my justice: According to the cleanness of my hands he turned back to me.
22	For I have watched the ways of Jehovah, And I acted not wickedly away from my God.
23	For all his judgments before me, And his laws I will not depart from them.
24	And I will be blameless to him, and I shall be washed from mine iniquity.
25	Jehovah will turn back to me according to my justice: According to my cleanness before his eyes.
26	With the merciful thou wilt be merciful, With the perfect man thou wilt be perfect.
27	With the chosen thou wilt be chosen, And with the perverse thou wilt be unseasoned.
28	And the people of affliction thou wilt save: And thine eyes upon the lifted up, thou wilt humble.
29	For thou my light, O Jehovah: And Jehovah will enlighten my darkness.
30	For in thee will I run, being pressed In my God will I leap over a wall.
31	The Strong One, blameless his way The saying of Jehovah purified, A shield to all trusting in him.
32	For who God besides Jehovah? And who a rock besides our God?
33	The Strong One strengthening me with strength: And he will leave his way blameless.
34	Setting my feet as the hinds: And upon the heights will he cause me to stand.
35	Teaching my hands to the war, And bringing down the brazen bow by mine arm.
36	And thou wilt give to me the shield of thy salvation, and thine answer will multiply me.
37	Thou wilt enlarge my steps under me, And my joints were not unsteady.
38	I will pursue mine enemies and destroy them I will not turn back even to finishing them.
39	And I will consume them and crush them, and they shall not be raised up.
40	Thou wilt fasten me together with strength for the war, Thou wilt subdue under me him rising up against me.
41	And the neck of mine enemies wilt thou give to me Those hating me, and I will cut them off.
42	They will look, and no saviour To Jehovah, and he answered them not.
43	And I will rub them as the dust of the earth: As the mire of the streets I will stamp them, I will beat them:
44	And thou wilt save me from the strifes of my people, Thou wilt watch me for the head of nations: The people I have not known shall serve me.
45	The sons of the stranger will lie to me: For the hearing of the ear they will hear to me.
46	The sons of the stranger shall fail, and be girded from their enclosings.
47	Jehovah living; and praised my rock: And God shall be lifted up, the rock of my salvation.
48	The Strong One giving vengeance to me, And bringing down peoples under me.
49	And bringing me out from mine enemies lifting me up from them rising up against me: From the man of violence thou wilt deliver me.
50	For this will I praise thee, O Jehovah, in the nations, to thy name will I play on the harp.
51	Magnifying the salvation of his king: And he has done mercy to his Messiah To David and to his seed even to forever.