1	And the anger of Jehovah will add to kindle against Israel, and he stimulated David against them, saying, Go, number Israel and Judah.
2	And the king will say to Joab, chief of the army which was with him, Go now, up and down through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan and even to the Well of the Oath, and review ye the people, and I shall know the number of the people.
3	And Joab will say to the king, Jehovah thy God will add to the people as they and as they a hundred times, and the eyes of my lord the king seeing: and my lord the king, wherefore delights he in this word?
4	And the king’s word will be strong to Joab and to the chiefs of his army. And Joab went forth and the chiefs of his army before the king to review the people Israel.
5	And they will pass over Jordan, and they will encamp in Aroer, the right hand of the city which is in the midst of the torrent of Gad, and towards Jazer:
6	And they will come to Gilead and to the land of Tahtim-Hodshi; and they will come to Dan-Jaan, and round about to Zidon.
7	And they will come to the fortress of Tyre, and all the cities of the Hivites and of the Canaanites; and they will go forth to the south of Judah to the Well of the Oath.
8	And they will turn aside through all the land, and they will come from the end of nine months and twenty days to Jerusalem.
9	And Joab will give the number of the reviewing of the people to the king: and there will be of Israel eight hundred thousand men of strength drawing sword; and the men of Judah, five hundred thousand men.
10	And the heart of David will strike him after he thus reviewed the people. And David will say to Jehovah, I sinned greatly in what I did: and now, O Jehovah, now pass by the iniquity of thy servant, for I was very foolish.
11	And David will rise in the morning, and the word of Jehovah was to Gad the prophet, seer of David, saying,
12	Go and speak to David, Thus said Jehovah, Three I lay upon thee: choose to thee one from them, and I will do to thee.
13	And Gad will come to David and announce to him, and say to him, Shall seven years of famine come to thee in thy land? and if three mouths to flee before thine adversaries, they pursuing thee? and if death to be three days in thy land? now know, and see what word I shall turn back to him sending me.
14	And David will say to Gad, Straits to me exceedingly: now we will fall into the hand of Jehovah, for many his compassions; and into the hand of man I will not fall.
15	And Jehovah will give death in Israel from the morning and even to the time of the appointment; and from the people will die from Dan and even to the Well of the Oath, seventy thousand men.
16	And the messenger will stretch forth his hand to destroy Jerusalem, and Jehovah will lament for the evil, and he will say to the messenger destroying among the people, Much now: let go thy hand. And the messenger of Jehovah was near the threshing-floor of Araunah the Jebusite.
17	And David will say to Jehovah, in his seeing the messenger smiting the people, and he will say, Behold, I sinned and acted perversely; and these sheep, what did they? Now shall thy hand be upon me and upon my father’s house.
18	And Gad will come to David in that day and say to him, Go up, raise up an altar to Jehovah in the threshing-floor of Araunah the Jebusite.
19	And David will go up, according to the word of Gad, as Jehovah commanded.
20	And Araunah will look forth and see the king and his servants passing over to him: and Araunah will go forth and worship to the king, his face to the earth.
21	And Araunah will say, Wherefore came my lord the king to his servant? and David will say, To buy from thee the threshing-floor to build an altar to Jehovah, and the slaughter shall be withheld from above the people.
22	And Araunah will say to David, My lord the king shall take and bring up the good in his eyes: see, the oxen for the burnt-offering, and the threshing-rollers, and the instruments of the oxen for wood.
23	And Araunah gave all to the king for the king. And Araunah will say to the king, Jehovah thy God will take pleasure in thee.
24	And the king will say to Araunah, Nay, but buying, I will buy of thee at a price; and I will not bring up to Jehovah my God a burnt-offering gratuitously. And David will buy the threshing-floor and the oxen for the silver of fifty shekels.
25	And David will build there an altar to Jehovah, and he will bring up burnt-offerings and peace. And Jehovah will be entreated for the land, and the slaughter will be withheld from Israel.