1	And it will be when the king sat in his house, and Jehovah gave rest to him from round about from all his enemies.
2	And the king will say to Nathan the prophet, See now, me dwelling in a house of cedars, and the ark of God dwelling in midst of the curtains.
3	And Nathan will say to the king, All which, is in thy heart, do; for Jehovah is with thee.
4	And it will be in that night, and the word of Jehovah will be to Nathan, saying,
5	Go and say to my servant, to David, Thus said Jehovah, Shalt thou build me an house for my resting?
6	For I dwelt not in a house from the day I brought up the sons of Israel from Egypt even to this day, and I shall be going in a tent and in a dwelling.
7	And in all where I went among all the sons of Israel spake I a word with one of the judges of Israel whom I commanded to feed my people Israel, saying, Why built ye not to me a house of cedars?
8	And now thus shalt thou say to my servant, to David, Thus said Jehovah of armies, I took thee from quiet, from after the sheep, to be ruler over my people, over Israel:
9	And I will be with thee in all where thou wilt go, and I will cut off all thine enemies from thy face, and I made to thee a great name as the name of the great which are upon the earth.
10	And I set a place for my people, for Israel, and I planted him and he dwelt in his place, and he shall be no more moved; and the sons of iniquity shall not add to humble him as in the beginning.
11	And from the day I commanded judges over my people Israel, and I gave rest to thee from all thine enemies. And Jehovah announced to thee that Jehovah will make to thee a house.
12	When thy days shall be filled up and thou shalt lie down with thy fathers, and I raised up thy seed after thee which shall come forth thy bowels, and I prepared his kingdom.
13	He shall build a house for my name, and I set the throne of his kingdom even to forever.
14	I will be to him for father, and he shall be to me for son; who in his sinning I struck him with the rod of men, and with the blows of the sons of men.
15	And my mercy I will not remove from him as I removed from Saul whom I removed from thy face.
16	And thy house was firm and thy kingdom even to forever before thee; thy throne shall be prepared even to forever.
17	According to all these words and according to all this vision so spake Nathan to David.
18	And king David will come and sit before Jehovah, and say, Who am I Lord Jehovah? and who my house that thou broughtest me even to these?
19	And this yet will be small in thine eyes, Lord Jehovah; and thou wilt speak also to the house of thy servant for remoteness. And this the law of man, Lord Jehovah?
20	And what shall David yet add to speak to thee? for thou knewest thy servant, Lord Jehovah.
21	For sake of thy word and according to thy heart thou didst all this greatness to make thy servant know.
22	For this thou wert great, Jehovah God: for none as thee, for no God beside thee according to all we heard in our ears.
23	And who as thy people, as Israel, one nation in the earth whom God went to redeem to him for a people, and to set up for him a name, and to do for you greatness and wonderful things for thy land from the face of thy people whom thou didst redeem to thee from Egypt, nations and his tents.
24	And thou wilt prepare to thyself thy people Israel to thee for a people, even to forever. And thou Jehovah wert to them for God.
25	And now, Jehovah God the word that thou spakest concerning thy servant, and concerning his house, set up even to forever, and do as thou spakest.
26	And thy name shall be great even to forever, saying, Jehovah of armies the God over Israel: and the house of thy servant David shall be prepared before thee.
27	For thou, Jehovah of armies, the God of Israel, thou didst open the ear of thy servant, saying, I will build to thee an house: for this thy servant found his heart to pray to thee this prayer.
28	And now, Lord Jehovah, thou that God, and thy words shall be true, and thou wilt speak to thy servant this goodness.
29	And now be willing and bless the house of thy servant to be forever before thee: for thou, Lord Jehovah, spakest: and from thy blessing the house of thy servant shall be blessed forever.