1	And David will say, Is there yet any which was left to the house of Saul? and I will do with him mercy for sake of Jonathan.
2	And to the house of Saul a servant and his name Ziba. And they will call for him to David, and the king will say to him, Thou Ziba? and he will say, Thy servant.
3	And the king will say, Is there not yet a man to the house of Saul? and I will do with him the mercy of God. And Ziba will say to the king, Yet a son to Jonathan, smitten of the feet.
4	And the king will say to him, Where is he? And Ziba will say to the king, Behold him in the house of Machir, son of Ammiel, from Lo-Debar.
5	And king David will send and take him from the house of Machir, son of Ammiel, from Lo-Debar.
6	And Mephibosheth, son of Jonathan, son of Saul, will come to David and fall upon his face and worship him. And David will say, Mephibosheth. And he will say, Behold thy servant.
7	And David will say to him, Thou shalt not fear, for doing, I will do with thee mercy for sake of Jonathan thy father; and I turned back to thee all the field of Saul thy father; and thou shalt eat bread upon my table always.
8	And he will worship him and say, What is thy servant that thou didst look to a dead dog which is like me?
9	And the king will call for Ziba the boy of Saul, and say to him, All which was to Saul and to all his house I gave to the son of thy lord.
10	And work for him the land, thou and thy sons, and thy servants, and bring in and it being bread for the son of thy lord, and they shall eat: and Mephibosheth, son of thy lord, shall eat always bread upon my table. And to Ziba, fifteen sons and twenty servants.
11	And Ziba will say to the king, According to all which my lord the king will command, so will thy servant do. And Mephibosheth ate at my table as one of the sons of the king.
12	And to Mephibosheth a little son, and his name Micha And all dwelling in the house of Ziba, servants to Mephibosheth.
13	And Mephibosheth dwelt in Jerusalem; for at the king’s table be always ate; and he was lame in his two feet.