1	In the second year to Darius the king, in the sixth month, in one day of the month, was the word of Jehovah, by the hand of Haggai the prophet to Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Josbna son of Josedeck the great priest, saying.
2	Thus said Jehovah of armies, saying, This people said the time was not come, the time of the house of Jehovah to be built.
3	And the word of Jehovah will be by the hand of Haggai the prophet, saying,
4	Is the time for you, O ye, to dwell in your covered houses, and this house a waste?
5	And now, thus said Jehovah of armies: Set your hearts upon your ways.
6	Ye sowed much and brought in little; eating and not being satisfied; ye drank, and not drinking to the full; putting on clothing, and not being warm to him; and he hiring out, hires out for a purse perforated.
7	Thus said Jehovah of armies: Set your hearts upon your ways.
8	Go up to the mountain and bring wood, and build the house, and I will delight in it, and I shall be honored, said Jehovah.
9	Looking for much, and behold, to little; and ye brought to the house and I blew upon it For what? says Jehovah of armies. Because of mine house that it was laid waste, and ye run each to his house.
10	For this the heavens over you were shut up from dew, and the earth withheld her produce.
11	And I will call the drought upon the land, and upon the mountains, and upon the grain, and upon the new wine and upon the new oil, and upon what the earth shall bring forth, and upon man and upon cattle, and upon all the labor of the hands.
12	And Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel will hear, and Joshua son of Josedeck the great priest, and all the remnant of the people, to the voice of Jehovah their God, and to the words of Haggai the prophet, as Jehovah their God sent him, and the people will fear from the face of Jehovah.
13	And Haggai the messenger of Jehovah will say in the message of Jehovah to the people, I am with you, says Jehovah.
14	And Jehovah will raise up the spirit of Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua son of Josedeck the great priest and the spirit of all the remnant of the people; and they will come and do the work in the house of Jehovah of armies their God.
15	In the twenty and fourth day to the sixth month in the second year to Darius the king.