1	In the seventh, in the twentieth and one to the month, was the word of Jehovah by the hand of Haggai the prophet, saying,
2	Say now to Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua son of Josedeck the great priest, and to the remnant of the people, saying,
3	Who being left among you who saw this house in its first glory? and how see ye it now? Is it not in your eyes like it as nothing?
4	And now be strong, O Zerubbabel, says Jehovah; and be strong, O Joshua, son of Josedeck the great priest; and be strong, O all people of the land, says Jehovah, and do, for I am with you, says Jehovah of armies.
5	The word which I cut out with you in bringing you forth out of Egypt, and my spirit stood in the midst of you; ye shall not fear.
6	For thus said Jehovah of armies; Yet once it is a little, and I shake the heavens and the earth and the sea and the dry land.
7	And I shook all nations, and the desire of all nations came; and I filled this house with glory, said Jehovah of armies.
8	To me the silver and to me the gold, says Jehovah of armies.
9	Great shall be the glory of this latter house above the first, said Jehovah of armies: and in this place I will give peace, says Jehovah of armies.
10	In the twenty and fourth to the ninth, in the second year to Darius, was the word of Jehovah by the hand of Haggai the prophet, saying,
11	Thus said Jehovah of armies, Ask now the priests the law, saying,
12	If a man shall lift up holy flesh in the wing of his garment and touch with the wing of his garment upon the bread and upon pottage, and upon wine and upon oil, and upon any food, shall it be made holy? And the priests shall answer and say, No.
13	And Haggai will say, If the unclean of soul shall touch upon any of these, shall it be unclean? and the priests shall answer and say, It shall be unclean.
14	And Haggai will answer and say, Thus this people and thus this nation before me, says Jehovah; and thus all the work of their hands; and what they shall bring near there it is unclean.
15	And now, set now your heart from this day and upward, before setting stone upon stone in the temple of Jehovah.
16	Who were ye coming to the heap of twenty and it was ten? coming to the wine-vat to draw fifty of the wine-press, and there was twenty?
17	I struck you with blasting and with yellowness and with hail in all the work of your hands; and none with you to me, says Jehovah.
18	Set now your heart from this day and upward, from the twenty and fourth day to the ninth, from the day that the temple of Jehovah was founded, set ye your heart.
19	Is the seed yet in the storehouse? and even the vine and the fig tree, and the pomegranate and the olive tree bore not: from this day will I praise.
20	And the word of Jehovah will be the second time to Haggai in the twenty and fourth to the month, saying,
21	Say to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, I shake the heavens and the earth.
22	And I overturned the throne of kingdoms, and I destroyed the strength of the kingdoms of the nations; and I overturned the chariot and those riding it; and the horses and their horsemen came down, a man by the sword of his brother.
23	In that day, says Jehovah of armies, I will take thee, O Zerubbabel, son of Shealtiel, my servant, says Jehovah, and I set thee as a seal; for I chose in thee, says Jehovah of armies.