1	After these things, I heard something like the voice of many multitudes in heaven, saying: “Alleluia! Praise and glory and power is for our God.
2	For true and just are his judgments, he who has judged the great harlot that corrupted the earth by her prostitution. And he has vindicated the blood of his servants from her hands.”
3	And again, they said: “Alleluia! For her smoke ascends forever and ever.”
4	And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshiped God, sitting upon the throne, saying: “Amen! Alleluia!”
5	And a voice went out from the throne, saying: “Express praise to our God, all you his servants, and you who fear him, small and great.”
6	And I heard something like the voice of a great multitude, and like the voice of many waters, and like the voice of great thunders, saying: “Alleluia! For the Lord our God, the Almighty, has reigned.
7	Let us be glad and exult. And let us give glory to him. For the marriage feast of the Lamb has arrived, and his wife has prepared herself.”
8	And it was granted to her that she should cover herself with fine linen, splendid and white. For the fine linen is the justifications of the Saints.
9	And he said to me: “Write: Blessed are those who have been called to the wedding feast of the Lamb.” And he said to me, “These words of God are true.”
10	And I fell down before his feet, to adore him. And he said to me: “Be careful not to do so. I am your fellow servant, and I am among your brothers, who hold to the testimony of Jesus. Adore God. For the testimony of Jesus is a spirit of prophecy.”
11	And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse. And he who was sitting upon it was called Faithful and True. And with justice does he judge and fight.
12	And his eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems, having a name written, which no one knows except himself.
13	And he was clothed with a vestment sprinkled with blood. And his name is called: THE WORD OF GOD.
14	And the armies that are in heaven were following him on white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.
15	And from his mouth proceeded a sharp two-edged sword, so that with it he may strike the nations. And he shall rule them with an iron rod. And he treads the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God Almighty.
16	And he has on his garment and on his thigh written: KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS.
17	And I saw a certain Angel, standing in the sun. And he cried out with a great voice, saying to all the birds that were flying through the midst of the sky, “Come and gather together for the great supper of God,
18	so that you may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of tribunes, and the flesh of the strong, and the flesh of horses and those sitting on them, and the flesh of all: free and servant, small and great.”
19	And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies, having been gathered together to do battle against him who was sitting upon the horse, and against his army.
20	And the beast was apprehended, and with him the false prophetess, who in his presence caused the signs, by which she seduced those who accepted the character of the beast and who worshiped his image. These two were cast alive into the pool of fire burning with sulphur.
21	And the others were slain by the sword that proceeds from the mouth of him who was sitting upon the horse. And all the birds were sated with their flesh.