1	And I saw an Angel, descending from heaven, holding in his hand the key of the abyss and a great chain.
2	And he apprehended the dragon, the ancient serpent, who is the devil and Satan, and he bound him for a thousand years.
3	And he cast him into the abyss, and he closed and sealed it, so that he would no longer seduce the nations, until the thousand years are completed. And after these things, he must be released for a brief time.
4	And I saw thrones. And they sat upon them. And judgment was given to them. And the souls of those beheaded because of the testimony of Jesus and because of the Word of God, and who did not adore the beast, nor his image, nor accept his character on their foreheads or on their hands: they lived and they reigned with Christ for a thousand years.
5	The rest of the dead did not live, until the thousand years are completed. This is the First Resurrection.
6	Blessed and holy is he who takes part in the First Resurrection. Over these the second death has no power. But they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and they shall reign with him for a thousand years.
7	And when the thousand years will have been completed, Satan shall be released from his prison, and he will go out and seduce the nations which are upon the four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magog. And he will gather them together for battle, those whose number is like the sand of the sea.
8	And they climbed across the breadth of the earth, and they encompassed the camp of the Saints and the Beloved City.
9	And fire from God descended from heaven and devoured them. And the devil, who seduced them, was cast into the pool of fire and sulphur,
10	where both the beast and the false prophetess shall be tortured, day and night, forever and ever.
11	And I saw a great white throne, and One sitting upon it, from whose sight earth and heaven fled, and no place was found for them.
12	And I saw the dead, great and small, standing in view of the throne. And books were opened. And another Book was opened, which is the Book of Life. And the dead were judged by those things that had been written in the books, according to their works.
13	And the sea gave up the dead who were in it. And death and Hell gave up their dead who were in them. And they were judged, each one according to his works.
14	And Hell and death were cast into the pool of fire. This is the second death.
15	And whoever was not found written in the Book of Life was cast into the pool of fire.