1	And he showed me the river of the water of life, shining like crystal, proceeding from the throne of God and of the Lamb.
2	In the midst of its main street, and on both sides of the river, was the Tree of Life, bearing twelve fruits, offering one fruit for each month, and the leaves of the tree are for the health of the nations.
3	And every curse shall be no more. But the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants shall serve him.
4	And they shall see his face. And his name shall be on their foreheads.
5	And night shall be no more. And they will not need the light of a lamp, nor the light of the sun, because the Lord God will illuminate them. And they shall reign forever and ever.
6	And he said to me: “These words are entirely faithful and true.” And the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, sent his Angel to reveal to his servant what must occur soon:
7	“For behold, I am approaching quickly! Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.”
8	And I, John, heard and saw these things. And, after I had heard and seen, I fell down, so as to adore before the feet of the Angel, who was revealing these things to me.
9	And he said to me: “Be careful not to do so. For I am your fellow servant, and I am among your brothers the prophets, and among those who keep the words of the prophecy of this book. Adore God.”
10	And he said to me: “Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this book. For the time is near.
11	Whoever does harm, he might still do harm. And whoever is filthy, he might still be filthy. And whoever is just, he may still be just. And one who is holy, he may still be holy.”
12	“Behold, I am approaching quickly! And my repayment is with me, to render to each one according to his works.
13	I am the Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End.”
14	Blessed are those who wash their robes in the blood of the Lamb. So may they have a right to the tree of life; so may they enter through the gates into the City.
15	Outside are dogs, and drug users, and homosexuals, and murderers, and those who serve idols, and all who love and do what is false.
16	“I, Jesus, have sent my Angel, to testify to these things for you among the Churches. I am the Root and the Origin of David, the bright morning Star.”
17	And the Spirit and the Bride say: “Draw near.” And whoever hears, let him say: “Draw near.” And whoever thirsts, let him draw near. And whoever is willing, let him accept the water of life, freely.
18	For I call as witnesses all listeners of the words of the prophecy of this book. If anyone will have added to these, God will add upon him the afflictions written in this book.
19	And if anyone will have taken away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his portion from the Book of Life, and from the Holy City, and from these things which have been written in this book.
20	He who offers testimony to these things, says: “Even now, I am approaching quickly.” Amen. Come, Lord Jesus.
21	The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.