1	“And to the Angel of the Church of Sardis write: Thus says he who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars: I know your works, that you have a name which is alive, but you are dead.
2	Be vigilant, and confirm the things that remain, lest they soon die out. For I do not find your works to be full in the sight of my God.
3	Therefore, keep in mind the way that you have received and heard, and then observe it and repent. But if you will not be vigilant, I will come to you like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come to you.
4	But you have a few names in Sardis who have not defiled their garments. And these shall walk with me in white, because they are worthy.
5	Whoever prevails, so shall he be clothed in white vestments. And I will not delete his name from the Book of Life. And I will confess his name in the presence of my Father and in the presence of his Angels.
6	Whoever has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the Churches.
7	And to the Angel of the Church of Philadelphia write: Thus says the Holy One, the True One, he who holds the key of David. He opens and no one closes. He closes and no one opens.
8	I know your works. Behold, I have set an open door before you, which no one is able to close. For you have little power, and you have observed my word, and you have not denied my name.
9	Behold, I will take from the synagogue of Satan those who declare themselves to be Jews and are not, for they are lying. Behold, I will cause them to approach and to reverence before your feet. And they shall know that I have loved you.
10	Since you have kept the word of my patient endurance, I also will keep you from the hour of temptation, which shall overcome the whole world in order to test those living upon the earth.
11	Behold, I am approaching quickly. Hold on to what you have, so that no one may take your crown.
12	Whoever prevails, I will set him as a column in the temple of my God, and he shall not depart from it anymore. And I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem that descends out of heaven from my God, and my new name.
13	Whoever has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the Churches.
14	And to the Angel of the Church of Laodicea write: Thus says the Amen, the faithful and true Witness, who is the Beginning of the creation of God:
15	I know your works: that you are neither cold, nor hot. I wish that you were either cold or hot.
16	But because you are lukewarm and are neither cold nor hot, I will begin to vomit you out of my mouth.
17	For you declare, ‘I am wealthy, and I have been enriched further, and I have need of nothing.’ And you do not know that you are wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked.
18	I urge you to buy from me gold, tested by fire, so that you may be enriched and may be clothed in white vestments, and so that the shame of your nakedness may disappear. And anoint your eyes with an eye salve, so that you may see.
19	Those whom I love, I rebuke and chastise. Therefore, be zealous and do penance.
20	Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone will hear my voice and will open the door to me, I will enter to him, and I will dine with him, and he with me.
21	Whoever prevails, I will grant to him to sit with me on my throne, just as I also have overcome and have sat down with my Father on his throne.
22	Whoever has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the Churches.”