1	And in the right hand of the One sitting upon the throne, I saw a book, written inside and out, sealed with seven seals.
2	And I saw a strong Angel, proclaiming with a great voice, “Who is worthy to open the book and to break its seals?”
3	And no one was able, neither in heaven, nor on earth, nor under the earth, to open the book, nor to gaze upon it.
4	And I wept greatly because no one was found worthy to open the book, nor to see it.
5	And one of the elders said to me: “Weep not. Behold, the lion from the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has prevailed to open the book and to break its seven seals.”
6	And I saw, and behold, in the midst of the throne and the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, a Lamb was standing, as if it were slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God, sent forth to all the earth.
7	And he approached and received the book from the right hand of the One sitting upon the throne.
8	And when he had opened the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each having stringed instruments, as well as golden bowls full of fragrances, which are the prayers of the saints.
9	And they were singing a new canticle, saying: “O Lord, you are worthy to receive the book and to open its seals, because you were slain and have redeemed us for God, by your blood, from every tribe and language and people and nation.
10	And you have made us into a kingdom and into priests for our God, and we shall reign over the earth.”
11	And I saw, and I heard the voice of many Angels surrounding the throne and the living creatures and the elders, (and their number was thousands of thousands)
12	saying with a great voice: “The Lamb who was slain is worthy to receive power, and divinity, and wisdom, and strength, and honor, and glory, and blessing.”
13	And every creature that is in heaven, and on earth, and under the earth, and all that is within the sea: I heard them all saying: “To the One sitting upon the throne and to the Lamb be blessing, and honor, and glory, and authority, forever and ever.”
14	And the four living creatures were saying, “Amen.” And the twenty-four elders fell down on their faces, and they adored the One who lives forever and ever.