1	And if his oblation be a sacrifice of peace offerings; if he offer of the herd, whether male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before the LORD.
2	And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his oblation, and kill it at the door of the tent of meeting: and Aaron’s sons the priests shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about.
3	And he shall offer of the sacrifice of peace offerings an offering made by fire unto the LORD; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,
4	and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys, shall he take away.
5	And Aaron’s sons shall burn it on the altar upon the burnt offering, which is upon the wood that is on the fire: it is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.
6	And if his oblation for a sacrifice of peace offerings unto the LORD be of the flock; male or female, he shall offer it without blemish.
7	If he offer a lamb for his oblation, then shall he offer it before the LORD:
8	and he shall lay his hand upon the head of his oblation, and kill it before the tent of meeting: and Aaron’s sons shall sprinkle the blood thereof upon the altar round about.
9	And he shall offer of the sacrifice of peace offerings an offering made by fire unto the LORD; the fat thereof, the fat tail entire, he shall take it away hard by the backbone; and the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,
10	and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the loins, and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys, shall he take away.
11	And the priest shall burn it upon the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire unto the LORD.
12	And if his oblation be a goat, then he shall offer it before the LORD:
13	and he shall lay his hand upon the head of it, and kill it before the tent of meeting: and the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle the blood thereof upon the altar round about.
14	And he shall offer thereof his oblation, even an offering made by fire unto the LORD; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,
15	and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the loins, and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys, shall he take away.
16	And the priest shall burn them upon the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire, for a sweet savour: all the fat is the LORD’S.
17	It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your dwellings, that ye shall eat neither fat nor blood.