1	Now tax collectors and sinners were drawing near to him, so that they might listen to him.
2	And the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, “This one accepts sinners and eats with them.”
3	And he told this parable to them, saying:
4	“What man among you, who has one hundred sheep, and if he will have lost one of them, would not leave the ninety-nine in the desert and go after the one whom he had lost, until he finds it?
5	And when he has found it, he places it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
6	And returning home, he calls together his friends and neighbors, saying to them: ‘Congratulate me! For I have found my sheep, which had been lost.’
7	I say to you, that there will be so much more joy in heaven over one sinner repenting, than over the ninety-nine just, who do not need to repent.
8	Or what woman, having ten drachmas, if she will have lost one drachma, would not light a candle, and sweep the house, and diligently search until she finds it?
9	And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying: ‘Rejoice with me! For I have found the drachma, which I had lost.’
10	So I say to you, there will be joy before the Angels of God over even one sinner who is repentant.”
11	And he said: “A certain man had two sons.
12	And the younger of them said to the father, ‘Father, give me the portion of your estate which would go to me.’ And he divided the estate between them.
13	And after not many days, the younger son, gathering it all together, set out on a long journey to a distant region. And there, he dissipated his substance, living in luxury.
14	And after he had consumed it all, a great famine occurred in that region, and he began to be in need.
15	And he went and attached himself to one of the citizens of that region. And he sent him to his farm, in order to feed the swine.
16	And he wanted to fill his belly with the scraps that the swine ate. But no one would give it to him.
17	And returning to his senses, he said: ‘How many hired hands in my father’s house have abundant bread, while I perish here in famine!
18	I shall rise up and go to my father, and I will say to him: Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you.
19	I am not worthy to be called your son. Make me one of your hired hands.’
20	And rising up, he went to his father. But while he was still at a distance, his father saw him, and he was moved with compassion, and running to him, he fell upon his neck and kissed him.
21	And the son said to him: ‘Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. Now I am not worthy to be called your son.’
22	But the father said to his servants: ‘Quickly! Bring out the best robe, and clothe him with it. And put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet.
23	And bring the fatted calf here, and kill it. And let us eat and hold a feast.
24	For this son of mine was dead, and has revived; he was lost, and is found.’ And they began to feast.
25	But his elder son was in the field. And when he returned and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing.
26	And he called one of the servants, and he questioned him as to what these things meant.
27	And he said to him: ‘Your brother has returned, and your father has killed the fatted calf, because he has received him safely.’
28	Then he became indignant, and he was unwilling to enter. Therefore, his father, going out, began to plead with him.
29	And in response, he said to his father: ‘Behold, I have been serving you for so many years. And I have never transgressed your commandment. And yet, you have never given me even a young goat, so that I might feast with my friends.
30	Yet after this son of yours returned, who has devoured his substance with loose women, you have killed the fatted calf for him.’
31	But he said to him: ‘Son, you are with me always, and all that I have is yours.
32	But it was necessary to feast and to rejoice. For this brother of yours was dead, and has revived; he was lost, and is found.’ ”