1	Now the days of the Feast of Unleavened Bread, which is called Passover, were approaching.
2	And the leaders of the priests, and the scribes, were seeking a way to execute Jesus. Yet truly, they were afraid of the people.
3	Then Satan entered into Judas, who was surnamed Iscariot, one of the twelve.
4	And he went out and was speaking with the leaders of the priests, and the magistrates, as to how he might hand him over to them.
5	And they were glad, and so they made an agreement to give him money.
6	And he made a promise. And he was seeking an opportunity to hand him over, apart from the crowds.
7	Then the day of Unleavened Bread arrived, on which it was necessary to kill the Pascal lamb.
8	And he sent Peter and John, saying, “Go out, and prepare the Passover for us, so that we may eat.”
9	But they said, “Where do you want us to prepare it?”
10	And he said to them: “Behold, as you are entering into the city, a certain man will meet you, carrying a pitcher of water. Follow him to the house into which he enters.
11	And you shall say to the father of the household: ‘The Teacher says to you: Where is the guestroom, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?’
12	And he will show you a large cenacle, fully furnished. And so, prepare it there.”
13	And going out, they found it to be just as he had told them. And they prepared the Passover.
14	And when the hour had arrived, he sat down at table, and the twelve Apostles with him.
15	And he said to them: “With longing have I desired to eat this Passover with you, before I suffer.
16	For I say to you, that from this time, I will not eat it, until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.”
17	And having taken the chalice, he gave thanks, and he said: “Take this and share it among yourselves.
18	For I say to you, that I will not drink from the fruit of the vine, until the kingdom of God arrives.”
19	And taking bread, he gave thanks and broke it and gave it to them, saying: “This is my body, which is given for you. Do this as a commemoration of me.”
20	Similarly also, he took the chalice, after he had eaten the meal, saying: “This chalice is the new covenant in my blood, which will be shed for you.
21	But in truth, behold, the hand of my betrayer is with me at table.
22	And indeed, the Son of man goes according to what has been determined. And yet, woe to that man by whom he will be betrayed.”
23	And they began to inquire among themselves, as to which of them might do this.
24	Now there was also a contention among them, as to which of them seemed to be the greater.
25	And he said to them: “The kings of the Gentiles dominate them; and those who hold authority over them are called beneficent.
26	But it must not be so with you. Instead, whoever is greater among you, let him become the lesser. And whoever is the leader, let him become the server.
27	For who is greater: he who sits at table, or he who serves? Is not he who sits at table? Yet I am in your midst as one who serves.
28	But you are those who have remained with me during my trials.
29	And I dispose to you, just as my Father has disposed to me, a kingdom,
30	so that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and so that you may sit upon thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.”
31	And the Lord said: “Simon, Simon! Behold, Satan has asked for you, so that he may sift you like wheat.
32	But I have prayed for you, so that your faith may not fail, and so that you, once converted, may confirm your brothers.”
33	And he said to him, “Lord, I am prepared to go with you, even to prison and to death.”
34	And he said, “I say to you, Peter, the rooster will not crow this day, until you have three times denied that you know me.” And he said to them,
35	“When I sent you without money or provisions or shoes, did you lack anything?”
36	And they said, “Nothing.” Then he said to them: “But now, let whoever has money take it, and likewise with provisions. And whoever does not have these, let him sell his coat and buy a sword.
37	For I say to you, that what has been written must still be fulfilled in me: ‘And he was esteemed with the wicked.’ Yet even these things about me have an end.”
38	So they said, “Lord, behold, there are two swords here.” But he said to them, “It is sufficient.”
39	And departing, he went out, according to his custom, to the Mount of Olives. And his disciples also followed him.
40	And when he had arrived at the place, he said to them: “Pray, lest you enter into temptation.”
41	And he was separated from them by about a stone’s throw. And kneeling down, he prayed,
42	saying: “Father, if you are willing, take this chalice away from me. Yet truly, let not my will, but yours, be done.”
43	Then an Angel appeared to him from heaven, strengthening him. And being in agony, he prayed more intensely;
44	and so his sweat became like drops of blood, running down to the ground.
45	And when he had risen up from prayer and had gone to his disciples, he found them sleeping out of sorrow.
46	And he said to them: “Why are you sleeping? Rise up, pray, lest you enter into temptation.”
47	While he was still speaking, behold, a crowd arrived. And he who is called Judas, one of the twelve, went ahead of them and approached Jesus, in order to kiss him.
48	And Jesus said to him, “Judas, do you betray the Son of man with a kiss?”
49	Then those who were around him, realizing what was about to happen, said to him: “Lord, shall we strike with the sword?”
50	And one of them struck the servant of the high priest and cut off his right ear.
51	But in response, Jesus said, “Permit even this.” And when he had touched his ear, he healed him.
52	Then Jesus said to the leaders of the priests, and the magistrates of the temple, and the elders, who had come to him: “Have you gone out, as if against a thief, with swords and clubs?
53	When I was with you each day in the temple, you did not extend your hands against me. But this is your hour and that of the power of darkness.”
54	And apprehending him, they led him to the house of the high priest. Yet truly, Peter followed at a distance.
55	Now as they were sitting around a fire, which had been kindled in the middle of the atrium, Peter was in their midst.
56	And when a certain woman servant had seen him sitting in its light, and had looked at him intently, she said, “This one was also with him.”
57	But he denied him by saying, “Woman, I do not know him.”
58	And after a little while, another one, seeing him, said, “You also are one of them.” Yet Peter said, “O man, I am not.”
59	And after the interval of about one hour had passed, someone else affirmed it, saying: “Truly, this one also was with him. For he is also a Galilean.”
60	And Peter said: “Man, I do not know what you are saying.” And at once, while he was still speaking, the rooster crowed.
61	And the Lord turned around and looked at Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord that he had said: “For before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times.”
62	And going out, Peter wept bitterly.
63	And the men who were holding him ridiculed him and beat him.
64	And they blindfolded him and repeatedly struck his face. And they questioned him, saying: “Prophesy! Who is it that struck you?”
65	And blaspheming in many other ways, they spoke against him.
66	And when it was daytime, the elders of the people, and the leaders of the priests, and the scribes convened. And they led him into their council, saying, “If you are the Christ, tell us.”
67	And he said to them: “If I tell you, you will not believe me.
68	And if I also question you, you will not answer me. Neither will you release me.
69	But from this time, the Son of man will be sitting at the right hand of the power of God.”
70	Then they all said, “So you are the Son of God?” And he said. “You are saying that I am.”
71	And they said: “Why do we still require testimony? For we have heard it ourselves, from his own mouth.”