1	Proverbs of Solomon. A wise son will gladden a father: and a son of the foolish will grieve his mother.
2	Treasures of injustice shall not profit, and justice shall deliver from death.
3	Jehovah will not cause the soul of the just one to hunger: and he will thrust away the desire of the unjust.
4	A slothful hand makes poverty, and the hand of the active will make rich.
5	He gathering in summer, is a prudent son: he lying in deep sleep in harvest, a son causing shame.
6	Blessings upon the head of the just one: and violence shall cover the mouth of the unjust.
7	The memory of the just one for blessing: and the name of the wicked shall be rotten.
8	The wise of heart will receive commands: and the foolish of lips shall fall.
9	He going in integrity shall go confidently: and he perverting his ways shall be known.
10	He pinching the eye shall give pain: and the foolish of lips shall fall.
11	A fountain of life the mouth of the just one: and violence shall cover the mouth of the unjust.
12	Hatred will excite strifes: and love will cover over all transgressions.
13	In the lips of him understanding, wisdom shall be found: and a rod for the back of him wanting heart.
14	The wise shall hide knowledge: and the mouth of the foolish drew near destruction.
15	The wealth of the rich his strong city: the destruction of the poor their poverty.
16	The labors of the just one, to life: the increase of the unjust to sin.
17	The path to life is watching instruction: and he forsaking reproof goes astray.
18	He covering hatred with lips of falsehood, and he bringing forth slander, is foolish.
19	In the multitude of words transgression shall not cease: and he withholding his lips is prudent.
20	The tongue of the just is choice silver: the heart of the unjust is as little.
21	The lips of the just one shall feed many: and fools in wanting heart, shall die.
22	The blessing of Jehovah it will make rich, and it will not add pain with it.
23	As laughter to the foolish one, to do mischief: and wisdom is to the man of understanding.
24	The fear of the unjust one it shall come to him: and the desire of the just shall be given.
25	As the whirlwind passing away the unjust one is not: and the just one a foundation forever.
26	As vinegar to the teeth and as smoke to the eyes, so is the slothful one to those sending him.
27	The fear of Jehovah will add days, and the years of the unjust shall be diminished.
28	The hope of the just is gladness: and the expectation of the unjust shall perish.
29	The way of Jehovah is a fortress to the upright one: and destruction to those doing iniquity.
30	The just one shall not be moved forever: and the unjust shall not inhabit the earth.
31	The mouth of the just one shall germinate wisdom: and the tongue of perverseness shall be cut off.
32	The lips of the just one shall know acceptance: and the mouth of the unjust, perverseness.