1	Good a dry morsel and peace with it, above a house full of sacrifices of contention.
2	An understanding servant shall rule a son causing shame, and shall divide the inheritance in the midst of the brethren.
3	The crucible for silver and the furnace for gold: and Jehovah tries hearts.
4	He doing evil attends upon, lips of vanity; he lying feeds upon a tongue of mischief.
5	He mocking to the poor one reproached him making him: and he rejoicing at misfortune shall not be unpunished.
6	The crown of old men, sons’ sons: and the glory of sons their fathers.
7	The lip of excellence is not becoming to, the foolish one: much less the lip of falsehood to the noble one.
8	The gift a stone of grace in the, eyes of him possessing it: to all which it shall turn it shall prosper.
9	He covering transgression seeks love; and he perverting in the word, separates a, friend.
10	A reproof will take hold upon, him understanding more than a hundred, blows the foolish.
11	An evil one will seek only contradiction: and a cruel messenger shall be sent against him.
12	A bereaved bear meeting with a, man, and not a fool in his folly.
13	He turning back evil, instead of good, evil shall not move from his house.
14	The causing water to break forth is the beginning of strife: cast off contention before being irritated.
15	He justifying the unjust one and he condemning the just one, is an abomination to Jehovah, also they two.
16	Wherefore this a price in the hand of the foolish one to obtain wisdom, and no heart?
17	A friend loves in all time, and a brother shall be born for straits.
18	A man wanting heart will strike the hand, pledging a pledge before his friend.
19	He loving transgression loves contention: he lifting up his gate seeks breaking.
20	The perverse of heart shall not find good: and he turning about with his tongue shall fall into evil.
21	The foolish one was born for sorrow to himself, and the father of the foolish one shall not rejoice.
22	A joyful heart shall make good healing: and a dejected spirit shall dry up the bones.
23	The unjust one will take a gift from the bosom to turn, aside the paths of judgment.
24	Wisdom, is with the face of him understanding, and the eyes of the foolish one are in the ends of the earth.
25	A foolish son a grief to his father, and bitterness to her bringing him forth.
26	Also punishing to the just one is not good, to strike nobles for uprightness.
27	He withholding his words will shew knowledge: I man of understanding is a cool spirit.
28	Also the foolish one being silent shall be thought wise: and he shutting his lips, understanding.