1	Good the poor one going in his integrity above the perverse of lips, and he foolish.
2	Also the soul without knowledge is not good, and he hastening with his feat, sins.
3	The folly of man will subvert his way: and his heart will be angry against Jehovah.
4	Wealth will add many friends; and the poor one will be separated from his neighbor.
5	A witness of falsehoods shall not be unpunished, and he breathing out lies shall not escape.
6	Many will wait for the face of the prince, and every one the friend to the man giving.
7	All the brethren of the poor hated him: how much more his friends removed far from him? pursuing words they are not.
8	He obtaining a heart loved his soul: he watched understanding to find good.
9	A witness of falsehoods shall not be unpunished, and he breathing out lies shall perish.
10	Delight is not becoming to the foolish one; much less for a servant to rule over chiefs.
11	The understanding of man will defer his anger: and his glory to pass over transgression.
12	The king’s wrath growling as the young lion, and his acceptance as dew upon the grass.
13	A foolish son a calamity to his father: and the strifes of a woman a dropping thrust out.
14	A house and wealth the inheritance of fathers: and an understanding wife from Jehovah.
15	Sloth will cast a deep sleep; and the soul of sloth shall hunger.
16	He watching the command watches his soul: he despising his ways shall die.
17	He pitying the poor lends to Jehovah, and he will recompense to him his act.
18	Correct thy son when there is hope, and thy soul shall not lift up for his sighing.
19	The stern in wrath lifted up a fine: for if thou shalt deliver and thou shalt yet add.
20	Hear counsel and receive instruction, so that thou shalt be wise in thy latter state.
21	Many purposes in a man’s heart: and the counsel of Jehovah, that shall stand.
22	The desire of man his mercy: and the poor good above the man of falsehood.
23	The fear of Jehovah is to life: and he being filled shall lodge satisfied; he shall not be reviewed for evil.
24	The slothful one hiding his hand in the dish, also he will not turn it back to his mouth.
25	Thou shalt strike him mocking, and the simple will be crafty: and reprove to him understanding, and he will understand knowledge.
26	He oppressing the father and putting the mother to flight, is a son causing shame and causing disgrace.
27	Cease, my son, to hear instructions for erring from the words of knowledge.
28	A witness of Belial shall mock judgment: and the mouth of the unjust will swallow down iniquity.
29	Judgment was prepared for those mocking, and blows for the back of the foolish.