1	As snow in summer and as rain in harvest, so honor not becoming to the foolish one.
2	As the sparrow for wandering, as the swallow for flying, so the curse shall not come in vain.
3	A whip for the horse, the curb for the ass, and the rod for the back of the foolish.
4	Thou shalt not answer the foolish according to his folly lest thou shalt be like to him.
5	Answer the foolish according to his folly lest he shall be wise in his own eyes.
6	He drank violence, cutting off the feet, sending words by the hand of the foolish one.
7	The legs of the lame were weak, and a parable in the mouth of the foolish.
8	As a bundle of stones in a heap of stones, so he giving honor to the foolish one.
9	A thorn going up into the hand of a drunkard, a parable in the mouth of the foolish.
10	The great one piercing all, and he hired the foolish one, and those passing by.
11	As a dog turned back upon his vomit, the foolish one repeated in his folly.
12	Sawest thou a man wise in his eyes? hope is for the foolish one more than for him.
13	The slothful one said, A lion in the way; a lion between the broad places.
14	A door will turn upon its hinge, and the slothful upon his bed.
15	The slothful one hid his hand in the dish; he was weary to turn it back to his mouth.
16	The slothful one is wise in his eyes more than seven turning back a reason.
17	Laying hold upon the ears of a dog, he passing by overflowing upon strife not to him.
18	As a madman casting fiery darts, arrows and death,
19	So the man deceiving his neighbor and saying, Am I not sporting?
20	In the ceasing of wood, fire will go out: and in not being a tale-bearer, strife will subside.
21	As charcoal to burning coals and woods to fire, and a man of strifes to kindle strife.
22	The words of a tale-bearer as dainty morsels, and they will go down to the chambers of the belly.
23	Silver dross covering over a pot-sherd, burning lips and an evil heart.
24	He hating will be known by his lips, and he will set deceit in his midst;
25	When his voice will compassionate, thou shalt not believe him, for seven abominations in his heart.
26	Hatred will be covered by deceit, his evil will be revealed in the convocation.
27	He digging a pit shall fall into it: and he rolling a stone it shall turn back upon him.
28	A tongue of falsehood will hate its crushing, and a smooth mouth will make an overthrow.