1	The unjust fled and none pursuing, and the just shall be confident as the young lion.
2	In the transgression of a land many its chiefs: and by a man understanding to know, the place shall be extended.
3	A poor man oppressing the poor, a sweeping rain and no bread.
4	They forsaking the law will praise the unjust: and they watching the law, shall contend with them.
5	Men of evil shall not understand judgment: and they seeking Jehovah shall understand all.
6	Good the poor one going in his integrity above him perverting the ways, and he the rich.
7	He watching the law a son understanding: and the companion of squanderers will shame his father.
8	He increasing by interest and usury, he shall gather it for him compassionating the poor.
9	He turning away his ear from hearing the law, also his prayer is an abomination.
10	He causing the upright to wander in an evil way, into his pit shall he fall: and the good shall inherit complete things.
11	The rich man is wise in his eyes, and the poor one understanding shall search him out.
12	In the rejoicing of the just, much glory: in the rising up of the unjust, man will hide himself.
13	He covering his transgression shall not prosper: but he confessing and forsaking, shall be compassionated.
14	Happy the man fearing always: and he hardening his heart shall fall into evil.
15	A roaring lion and a greedy bear the unjust one ruling over a poor people.
16	A prince wanting understanding and great in oppressions: he hating gain shall lengthen the days.
17	He terrifying violence upon the blood of a soul shall flee even to the pit; none shall hold fast upon him.
18	He going uprightly shall be saved; and he being violent in the ways shall fall at once.
19	He working his land shall be filled with bread: and he pursuing the vain shall be filled with poverty.
20	A man of faithfulness multiplied blessings: and he hasting to be rich shall not be innocent.
21	To look upon faces is not good and for a morsel of bread the man will transgress.
22	A man of evil eye hasted for riches, and knew not that want shall come upon him.
23	He reproving a man, afterwards shall find favor more than he smoothing the tongue.
24	He stripping his father and his mother, and saying, No transgression; is companion to a man destroying.
25	He enlarging the soul shall excite strife: and he trusting upon Jehovah shall he made fat.
26	He trusting in his heart is foolish: and he going in wisdom shall be delivered.
27	He giving to the poor wants not: and he hiding his eyes increased curses.
28	In the rising up of the unjust, man shalt hide: and in their perishing, the lust shall increase.