1	A Man of reproofs hardening the neck, shall be suddenly broken, and no healing.
2	In the increasing of the just the people will rejoice: and in the ruling of the unjust one the people will groan.
3	A man loving wisdom will gladden his father: and he feeding harlots shall destroy riches.
4	A king in judgment shall establish the land: and a man of presents shall overthrow it.
5	A man making smooth against his neighbor spreads a net for his steps.
6	In the transgression of an evil man is a snare: and the just one shall rejoice and be glad:
7	The just one knew the judgment of the poor: the unjust one will not understand knowledge.
8	Men of derision will kindle up a city: and the wise will turn away anger.
9	A wise man contending with a foolish man and raging and laughing, and no rest.
10	Men of bloods will hate the upright one: and the upright will seek his soul.
11	The foolish one will bring forth all his spirit; and the wise one will restrain it back.
12	A ruler listening to the word of falsehood, all serving him are unjust.
13	The poor one and the man of oppressions met together: Jehovah enlightening the eyes of them both.
14	The king judging the poor in truth, his throne shall be established for a testimony.
15	The rod and reproofs will give wisdom: and the youth being left shames his mother.
16	In increasing the unjust, transgressions will increase: and the just all look upon their fall.
17	Correct thy son and he shall cause thee to rest, and he shall give delight to thy soul.
18	In no vision the people shall be unruly: and he watching the law, happy is he.
19	A servant will not be corrected by words: for he will understand and not answer.
20	Thou sawest a man hasty in his words: hope to the foolish one more than to him.
21	He bringing up his servant delicately from youth, and his latter state will be a child.
22	A man of anger will excite strife, and the possessor of wrath increased transgression.
23	A man’s pride shall bring him low: and honor shall uphold him humble of spirit.
24	He dividing with a thief, hates his soul: he shall hear cursing and shall not announce.
25	The fear of man will give a snare: and he trusting in Jehovah shall be exalted.
26	Many are seeking the face of the ruler, and from Jehovah a man’s judgment.
27	A man of iniquity is an abomination of the just; and the upright of way, an abomination of the unjust one.