1	My son, thou shalt not forget my law, and thy heart shall guard my commands:
2	For length of days and years of life, and peace they shall add to thee.
3	Mercy and truth shall not forsake thee: bind them upon thy throat; write them upon the tablet of thy heart:
4	And find grace and good understanding in the eyes of God and man.
5	Trust to Jehovah with all thy heart; and thou shalt not lean to thine understanding.
6	In all thy ways know him, and he will make straight thy paths.
7	Thou shalt not be wise in thine eyes: fear Jehovah and depart from evil.
8	It shall be healing to thy sinews, and moistening to thy bones.
9	Honor Jehovah from thy substance, and from the first-fruits of all thy produce.
10	And thy storehouses shall be filled with abundance, and thy wine-vats shall break forth with new wine.
11	My son, thou shalt not reject the instruction of Jehovah, and thou shalt not loathe upon his reproofs:
12	For whom Jehovah shall love he will rebuke, as a father the son he will delight in.
13	Happy the man finding wisdom; and the man shall bring forth understanding.
14	For good her gain above the gain of silver, and her increase above gold.
15	She is precious above red corals: and all thy delights shall not be equal with her.
16	Length of days in her right hand; in her left, riches and honor.
17	Her ways the ways of pleasantness, and all her beaten paths, peace.
18	She is a tree of life to all holding upon her: and happy he holding her fast.
19	Jehovah by wisdom founded the earth; he prepared the heavens by understanding.
20	By his knowledge the depths were rent, and the clouds will drop dew.
21	My son, they shall not depart from thine eyes: keep counsel and meditation:
22	And they shall be life to thy soul, and grace to thy throat.
23	Then shalt thou go thy way confidently, and thy foot shall not stumble.
24	If thou shalt lie down thou shalt not be afraid: and thou liest down and thy sleep shall be sweet.
25	Thou shalt not be afraid from sudden terror, and from the destruction of the unjust when it shall come.
26	For Jehovah shall be in thy confidence, and he watched thy foot from being taken.
27	Thou shalt not withhold good from those possessing it in its being to the power of thy hand to do.
28	Thou shalt not say to thy neighbor, Go, and turn back, and to-morrow I will give; and there is with thee.
29	Thou shalt not fabricate evil upon thy neighbor, and he dwelling confidently with thee.
30	Thou shalt not contend with man to no purpose, if he did thee no evil.
31	Thou shalt not envy against a man of violence, and thou shalt choose in all his ways.
32	For the perverse is an abomination of Jehovah: and his intercourse with the upright.
33	The curse of Jehovah is in the house of the unjust one: and he will bless the dwelling of the just.
34	But he will deride to those deriding: and he will give grace to the humble.
35	The wise shall inherit glory, and the foolish exalt dishonor.