1	My son, watch my words, and thou shalt hide my commands with thee.
2	Watch my commands, and live; and my law as the pupil of thine eyes.
3	Bind them upon thy fingers, and write them upon the tablet of thine heart.
4	Say to wisdom, Thou my sister; and thou shalt call knowledge to understanding:
5	To watch thyself from the strange woman, from the stranger making smooth her sayings.
6	For in the window of my house I looked forth through my lattice,
7	And I shall see among the simple, I shall perceive among the sons a youth wanting heart,
8	Passing in the street near her corner; and he will step the way of her house,
9	In the twilight, in the evening of the day, in the middle of the night, in the thick darkness:
10	And behold, a woman to his meeting, the attire of a harlot, and hidden of heart.
11	She being noisy and perverse; her feet will not dwell in her house:
12	One time without, one time in the broad ways; and she will lie in wait near every corner.
13	She laid hold upon him and kissed to him; she strengthened her face, and she will say to him,
14	Sacrifices of peace upon me: today I repaid my vows.
15	For this, I shall come forth to thy meeting, to seek thy face, and I shall find thee.
16	With adornings I spread my bed, variegated with thread of Egypt.
17	I sprinkled my bed with myrrh and aloes and cinnamon.
18	Come, we will be satisfied with loves till the morning: we will rejoice ourselves with loves.
19	For the man not in the house, he went in a way far off.
20	He took a bundle of silver in his hand; he will come to his house the day of the full moon.
21	With much of her talking she caused him to turn aside; with the smoothness of her lips she will thrust him away.
22	He went after her suddenly as the ox will go to the slaughter, and as the fetter for the correction of the foolish.
23	Till an arrow shall cleave his liver; as a bird hastening to the snare, and not knowing that it is for his soul.
24	And now, ye sons, hear to me, and attend to the sayings of my mouth.
25	And thy heart shall not deviate to her ways; thou shalt not wander in her beaten paths.
26	For she cast down many wounded, and the strong all being slain by her.
27	Her house the ways to hades, going down to the chambers of death.