1	Shall not wisdom call, and understanding give her voice?
2	She stood upon the head of the heights, upon the way of the house of the beaten paths.
3	At the hand of the gates, at the mouth of the city from the coming in of the doors she will cry:
4	To you, ye men, I shall call, and my voice is to the sons of man.
5	Understand craftiness, ye simple: and ye foolish, understand the heart.
6	Hear ye, for I will speak dear things; and the openings of my lips uprightnesses.
7	For my palate shall meditate the truth, and evil is the abomination of my lips.
8	In justice are all the sayings of my mouth; nothing in them crooked and perverse.
9	All of them straight to him understanding, and right to those finding knowledge.
10	Receive my instruction and not silver and knowledge above tried gold.
11	For wisdom is good above pearls, and all delights shall not be made equal with her.
12	I wisdom dwelt with prudence, and I shall find the knowledge of machinations.
13	The fear of Jehovah hates evil: pride and haughtiness, and the evil way, and the mouth of perverseness I hated.
14	To me counsel and wisdom: I am understanding; to me is strength.
15	By me kings shall reign, and princes shall decree justice.
16	By me chiefs shall have dominion, and nobles all judging the earth.
17	I loved those loving me: and they seeking me shall find me.
18	Riches and honor are with me; splendid riches and justice.
19	My fruit is good above gold, and above pure gold; and my gain above tried silver.
20	I shall go in the way of justice, in the midst of the beaten paths of judgment:
21	To cause those loving me to inherit existence: and I will fill their treasures.
22	Jehovah set me up the beginning of his way, before his works from ancient time.
23	From forever I was knit together, from the beginning, from the first of the earth.
24	In no depths was I begun; in no fountains abundant in waters.
25	Before the mountains were settled; before the hills I had a beginning:
26	Yet he made not the earth and the fields, and the head of the clods of the habitable globe.
27	In his preparing the heavens I was there: in his inscribing a circle upon the face of the deep:
28	In his making firm the clouds from above: in his strengthening the fountains of the deep:
29	In his setting his law to the sea, and the waters shall not pass by his mouth; in his making firm the foundations of the earth:
30	And I shall be near him the builder, and I shall be a delight of day, day, smiling before him in all time.
31	Smiling in the habitable globe of his earth; and my delight with the sons of man.
32	And now ye sons, hear to me: and the happy shall watch my ways.
33	Hear ye instructions, and be wise, and ye shall not reject it.
34	Happy the man hearing to me, to watch at my doors day, day; to watch the door posts of my entrances.
35	For he finding me, the finding of life, and he shall bring forth acceptance from Jehovah.
36	And he sinning against me did violence to his soul: all hating me loved death.