1	Thou therefore, my child, be strong in the grace which is in Christ Jesus.
2	And what thou hast heard from me by many witnesses, these things lay by for faithful men, who will be sufficient to teach others also.
3	Thou therefore suffer ill treatment, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ.
4	None making war is entangled with the affairs of life: that he may please him having enlisted him.
5	And also if any contend for a prize, he is not crowned, except he contend for a prize lawfully.
6	The farmer toiling must first participate in the fruits.
7	Observe what I say; for may the Lord give to thee understanding in all things.
8	Remember Jesus Christ raised from the dead, of the seed of David, according to my good news:
9	In which I suffer ill treatment, to bonds, as an evil doer; but the word of God has not been bound.
10	For this I endure all things for the chosen, that they also might attain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.
11	Faithful the word: For if we died together, we shall also live together:
12	If we endure, we shall also reign together: if we deny, he will also deny us:
13	If we believe not, he remains faithful: he cannot deny himself.
14	Put these things in mind, calling to witness before the Lord not to wrangle for nothing useful, to the subversion of them hearing.
15	Be earnest to present thyself acceptable to God, a worker without shame, dividing rightly the word of truth.
16	And avoid profane, empty discourses: for they will proceed to more of profanation.
17	And this word as a gangrene, will have an eating ulcer: of whom is Hymeneus and Philetus;
18	Who concerning the truth missed their aim, saying the rising up has already been; and they subvert the faith of some.
19	Truly the firm foundation of God has stood, having this seal, The Lord knows them being his. And, Let every one naming the name of Christ remove from iniquity.
20	And in a great house there is not only gold and silver vessels, but also wood and earthen; and some truly for honour, and some for dishonour.
21	If therefore any cleanse himself from these, he shall be a vessel for honour, consecrated, and useful for the master, prepared for every good work.
22	And flee youthful, eager desires: and follow justice, faith, love, peace, with them calling upon the Lord from a pure heart.
23	And silly and ignorant questions refuse, knowing that they produce strifes.
24	And the servant of the Lord must not contend; but be gentle to all, giving instruction, enduring evil,
25	In meekness instructing them being in a contrary state; lest perhaps God may give them repentance to the acknowledgment of the truth;
26	That they may return to a state of sobriety from the snare of the devil, being taken alive by him at his will.