1	Then Job answered and said,
2	I have heard many such things: miserable comforters are ye all.
3	Shall vain words have an end? or what provoketh thee that thou answerest?
4	I also could speak as ye do; if your soul were in my soul’s stead, I could join words together against you, and shake mine head at you.
5	But I would strengthen you with my mouth, and the solace of my lips should assuage your grief.
6	Though I speak, my grief is not assuaged: and though I forbear, what am I eased?
7	But now he hath made me weary: thou hast made desolate all my company.
8	And thou hast laid fast hold on me, which is a witness against me: and my leanness riseth up against me, it testifieth to my face.
9	He hath torn me in his wrath, and persecuted me; he hath gnashed upon me with his teeth: mine adversary sharpeneth his eyes upon me.
10	They have gaped upon me with their mouth; they have smitten me upon the cheek reproachfully: they gather themselves together against me.
11	God delivereth me to the ungodly, and casteth me into the hands of the wicked.
12	I was at ease, and he brake me asunder; yea, he hath taken me by the neck, and dashed me to pieces: he hath also set me up for his mark.
13	His archers compass me round about, he cleaveth my reins asunder, and doth not spare; he poureth out my gall upon the ground.
14	He breaketh me with breach upon breach; he runneth upon me like a giant.
15	I have sewed sackcloth upon my skin, and have laid my horn in the dust.
16	My face is foul with weeping, and on my eyelids is the shadow of death;
17	Although there is no violence in mine hands, and my prayer is pure.
18	O earth, cover not thou my blood, and let my cry have no resting place.
19	Even now, behold, my witness is in heaven, and he that coucheth for me is on high.
20	My friends scorn me: but mine eye poureth out tears unto God;
21	That he would maintain the right of a man with God, and of a son of man with his neighbour!
22	For when a few years are come, I shall go the way whence I shall not return.