1	I MADE a covenant with mine eyes; how then should I look upon a maid?
2	For what is the portion of God from above, and the heritage of the Almighty from on high?
3	Is it not calamity to the unrighteous, and disaster to the workers of iniquity?
4	Doth not he see my ways, and number all my steps?
5	If I have walked with vanity, and my foot hath hasted to deceit;
6	(Let me be weighed in an even balance, that God may know mine integrity;)
7	If my step hath turned out of the way, and mine heart walked after mine eyes, and if any spot hath cleaved to mine hands:
8	Then let me sow, and let another eat; yea, let the produce of my field be rooted out.
9	If mine heart have been enticed unto a woman, and I have laid wait at my neighbour’s door:
10	Then let my wife grind unto another, and let others bow down upon her.
11	For that were an heinous crime; yea, it were an iniquity to be punished by the judges:
12	For it is a fire that consumeth unto Destruction, and would root out all mine increase.
13	If I did despise the cause of my manservant or of my maidservant, when they contended with me:
14	What then shall I do when God riseth up? and when he visiteth, what shall I answer him?
15	Did not he that made me in the womb make him? and did not one fashion us in the womb?
16	If I have withheld the poor from their desire, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail;
17	Or have eaten my morsel alone, and the fatherless hath not eaten thereof;
18	(Nay, from my youth he grew up with me as with a father, and I have been her guide from my mother’s womb;)
19	If I have seen any perish for want of clothing, or that the needy had no covering;
20	If his loins have not blessed me, and if he were not warmed with the fleece of my sheep;
21	If I have lifted up my hand against the fatherless, because I saw my help in the gate:
22	Then let my shoulder fall from the shoulder blade, and mine arm be broken from the bone.
23	For calamity from God was a terror to me, and by reason of his excellency I could do nothing.
24	If I have made gold my hope, and have said to the fine gold, Thou art my confidence;
25	If I rejoiced because my wealth was great, and because mine hand had gotten much;
26	If I beheld the sun when it shined, or the moon walking in brightness;
27	And my heart hath been secretly enticed, and my mouth hath kissed my hand:
28	This also were an iniquity to be punished by the judges: for I should have lied to God that is above.
29	If I rejoiced at the destruction of him that hated me, or lifted up myself when evil found him;
30	(Yea, I suffered not my mouth to sin by asking his life with a curse;)
31	If the men of my tent said not, Who can find one that hath not been satisfied with his flesh?
32	The stranger did not lodge in the street; but I opened my doors to the traveller;
33	If like Adam I covered my transgressions, by hiding mine iniquity in my bosom;
34	Because I feared the great multitude, and the contempt of families terrified me, so that I kept silence, and went not out of the door—
35	Oh that I had one to hear me! (lo, here is my signature, let the Almighty answer me;) and that I had the indictment which mine adversary hath written!
36	Surely I would carry it upon my shoulder; I would bind it unto me as a crown.
37	I would declare unto him the number of my steps; as a prince would I go near unto him.
38	If my land cry out against me, and the furrows thereof weep together;
39	If I have eaten the fruits thereof without money, or have caused the owners thereof to lose their life:
40	Let thistles grow instead of wheat, and cockle instead of barley. The words of Job are ended.