1	Elihu also proceeded, and said,
2	Suffer me a little, and I will shew thee: for I have yet somewhat to say on God’s behalf.
3	I will fetch my knowledge from afar, and will ascribe righteousness to my Maker.
4	For truly my words are not false: one that is perfect in knowledge is with thee.
5	Behold, God is mighty, and despiseth not any: he is mighty in strength of understanding.
6	He preserveth not the life of the wicked: but giveth to the afflicted their right.
7	He withdraweth not his eyes from the righteous: but with kings upon the throne he setteth them for ever, and they are exalted.
8	And if they be bound in fetters, and be taken in the cords of affliction;
9	Then he sheweth them their work, and their transgressions, that they have behaved themselves proudly.
10	He openeth also their ear to instruction, and commandeth that they return from iniquity.
11	If they hearken and serve him, they shall spend their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasures.
12	But if they hearken not, they shall perish by the sword, and they shall die without knowledge.
13	But they that are godless in heart lay up anger: they cry not for help when he bindeth them.
14	They die in youth, and their life perisheth among the unclean.
15	He delivereth the afflicted by his affliction, and openeth their ear in oppression.
16	Yea, he would have led thee away out of distress into a broad place, where there is no straitness; and that which is set on thy table should be full of fatness.
17	But thou art full of the judgment of the wicked: judgment and justice take hold on thee.
18	Because there is wrath, beware lest thou be led away by thy sufficiency; neither let the greatness of the ransom turn thee aside.
19	Will thy riches suffice, that thou be not in distress, or all the forces of thy strength?
20	Desire not the night, when peoples are cut off in their place.
21	Take heed, regard not iniquity: for this hast thou chosen rather than affliction.
22	Behold, God doeth loftily in his power: who is a teacher like unto him?
23	Who hath enjoined him his way? or who can say, Thou hast wrought unrighteousness?
24	Remember that thou magnify his work, whereof men have sung.
25	All men have looked thereon; man beholdeth it afar off.
26	Behold, God is great, and we know him not; the number of his years is unsearchable.
27	For he draweth up the drops of water, which distil in rain from his vapour:
28	Which the skies pour down and drop upon man abundantly.
29	Yea, can any understand the spreadings of the clouds, the thunderings of his pavilion?
30	Behold, he spreadeth his light around him; and he covereth the bottom of the sea.
31	For by these he judgeth the peoples; he giveth meat in abundance.
32	He covereth his hands with the lightning; and giveth it a charge that it strike the mark.
33	The noise thereof telleth concerning him, the cattle also concerning the storm that cometh up.