1	Everyone believing that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God: and every one loving him having begotten, loves him also begotten of him.
2	In this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God, and keep his commands.
3	For this is the love of God, that we keep his commands: and his commands are not heavy.
4	For everything begotten of God conquers the world: and this is the victory having conquered the world, our faith.
5	Who is he conquering the world, if not he believing that Jesus is the Son of God?
6	This is he having come by water and blood, Jesus the Christ; not by water alone, but by water and blood. And the Spirit is testifying, for the Spirit is truth.
7	For three are testifying (in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit: and these three are one.
8	And three are testifying in the earth,) the spirit, and the water, and the blood: and the three are for one.
9	If we receive the testimony of men, the testimony of God is greater: for this is the testimony of God which he has testified concerning his Son.
10	He believing in the Son of God has the testimony in himself: he not believing God has made him a liar; for he has not believed the testimony which God has testified of his Son.
11	And this is the testimony, that God has given us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.
12	He having the Son has life; and he not having the Son of God has not life.
13	These I wrote to you believing in the name of the Son of God; ye might know that ye have eternal life, and that ye might believe in the name of the Son of God.
14	And this is the freedom of speech which we have toward him, that, if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us:
15	And if we know that he hear us, whatever we ask, we know that we have the petitions which we have asked of him.
16	If any see his brother sinning a sin not to death, he shall ask, and sinning will give him life to them sinning not to death. There is a sin to death: I say not of that, that he should ask.
17	All injustice is sin: and there is a sin not to death.
18	We know that every one born of God sins not; but he born of God keeps himself, and evil touches him not.
19	We know that we are of God, and the whole world lies in evil.
20	And we know that the Son of God has come, and has given us understanding, and we know him true, and we are in him true, in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God, and eternal life.
21	Little children, watch yourselves from idols. Amen.