1	And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:
2	“Behold, I have called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, from the tribe of Judah,
3	and I have filled him with the Spirit of God, with wisdom, and understanding, and knowledge in every craft,
4	in order to design whatever must be fabricated from gold, and silver, and brass,
5	from marble, and precious stones, and various woods.
6	And I have given to him, as his associate, Oholiab the son of Ahisamach, from the tribe of Dan. And I have placed wisdom in the heart of every artisan, so that they may make everything as I have instructed you:
7	the tabernacle of the covenant, and the ark of the testimony, and the propitiatory which is over it, and all the vessels of the tabernacle,
8	and the table and its vessels, the most pure lampstand with its vessels, and the altars of incense
9	and of holocaust and all their vessels, the washtub with its base,
10	the holy vestments for the ministry of Aaron the priest, and for his sons, so that they may execute their office of sacred rites,
11	the oil of unction, and the incense of aromatics in the Sanctuary. All the things that I have instructed you, they shall make.”
12	And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:
13	“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them: See that you keep my Sabbath. For it is a sign between me and you among your generations, so that you may know that I am the Lord, who sanctifies you.
14	Keep my Sabbath, for it is holy to you. Whoever will have polluted it, shall die a death. Whoever will have done any work in it, his soul shall perish from the midst of his people.
15	For six days you shall do work. On the seventh day, it is the Sabbath, a rest sanctified by the Lord. All who will have done work on this day shall die.
16	Let the sons of Israel keep the Sabbath, and let them celebrate it throughout their generations. It is an everlasting covenant
17	between me and the sons of Israel, and a perpetual sign. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and in the seventh he ceased from work.”
18	And the Lord, having completed speaking in this way on Mount Sinai, gave to Moses two stone tablets of testimony, written with the finger of God.