1	“And these are the names of the tribes, from the parts of the north, beside the way of Hethlon, continuing on to Hamath, at the entrance of Enon, to the border of Damascus toward the north, beside the way of Hamath. And from the region of the east to the sea, there will be one portion for Dan.
2	And beyond the border of Dan, from the eastern region, even to the region of the sea, there shall be one portion for Asher.
3	And beyond the border of Asher, from the eastern region, even to the region of the sea, there shall be one portion for Naphtali.
4	And beyond the border of Naphtali, from the eastern region, even to the region of the sea, there shall be one portion for Manasseh.
5	And beyond the border of Manasseh, from the eastern region, even to the region of the sea, there shall be one portion for Ephraim.
6	And beyond the border of Ephraim, from the eastern region, even to the region of the sea, there shall be one portion for Reuben.
7	And beyond the border of Reuben, from the eastern region, even to the region of the sea, there shall be one portion for Judah.
8	And beyond the border of Judah, from the eastern region, even to the region of the sea, there shall be the first-fruits, which you shall separate, twenty-five thousand in width, and in length, the same as each one of the portions from the eastern region, even to the region of the sea. And the sanctuary shall be in its midst.
9	The first-fruits, which you shall separate to the Lord, shall be, in length, twenty-five thousand, and in width, ten thousand.
10	And these shall be the first-fruits for the sanctuary of the priests: toward the north, in length, twenty-five thousand, and toward the sea, in width, ten thousand, but also, toward the east, in width, ten thousand, and toward the south, in length, twenty-five thousand. And the sanctuary of the Lord shall be in its midst.
11	The sanctuary shall be for the priests from the sons of Zadok, who observed my ceremonies and did not go astray, when the sons of Israel went astray, just as the Levites also went astray.
12	And so the foremost of the first-fruits of the land, the Holy of Holies, beside the border of the Levites, shall be for them.
13	But also the Levites, similarly, shall have, beside the borders of the priests, twenty-five thousand in length, and ten thousand in width. The entire length shall be twenty-five thousand, and the width shall be ten thousand.
14	And they shall not sell from it, nor exchange, and the first-fruits of the land shall not be transferred. For these have been sanctified to the Lord.
15	But the five thousand that is left over, out of the twenty-five thousand in width, will be a profane place of the city for dwelling and for the suburbs. And the city shall be in the center.
16	And these shall be its measurements: on the northern side, four thousand and five hundred; and on the southern side, four thousand and five hundred; and on the eastern side, four thousand and five hundred; and on the western side, four thousand and five hundred.
17	But the suburbs of the city shall be: to the north, two hundred and fifty; and to the south, two hundred and fifty; and to the east, two hundred and fifty; and to the sea, two hundred and fifty.
18	Now what will remain of the length, in accord with the first-fruits of the sanctuary, ten thousand in the east, and ten thousand in the west, shall be as the first-fruits of the sanctuary. And its produce will be for the bread of those who serve the city.
19	And those who serve the city will be taken from all the tribes of Israel.
20	All the first-fruits, of the twenty-five thousand by twenty-five thousand square, shall be separated as the first-fruits of the sanctuary and as the possession of the city.
21	And what will remain shall be for the prince out of every portion of the first-fruits of the sanctuary and of the possession of the city, from the region of the twenty-five thousand of the first-fruits, even to the eastern border. But also to the sea from the region of the twenty-five thousand, even to the border of the sea, similarly shall be the portion of the prince. And the first-fruits of the sanctuary, and the sanctuary of the temple, shall be in its center.
22	Now from the possession of the Levites, and from the possession of the city, which are in the midst of the prince’s portions, whatever is between the border of Judah and the border of Benjamin, shall also belong to the prince.
23	And for the remainder of the tribes, from the eastern region, even to the western region, there shall be one portion for Benjamin.
24	And opposite the border of Benjamin, from the eastern region, even to the western region, there shall be one portion for Simeon.
25	And beyond the border of Simeon, from the eastern region, even to the western region, there shall be one portion for Issachar.
26	And beyond the border of Issachar, from the eastern region, even to the western region, there shall be one portion for Zebulun.
27	And beyond the border of Zebulun, from the eastern region, even to the region of the sea, there shall be one portion for Gad.
28	And beyond the border of Gad, toward the southern region, in the meridian, the last part shall be from Tamar, even to the Waters of Contradiction at Kadesh, as the inheritance opposite the great sea.
29	This is the land that you shall distribute by lot to the tribes of Israel, and these shall be their portions, says the Lord God.
30	And these shall be the exits of the city: from the northern region, you shall measure four thousand and five hundred.
31	And the gates of the city shall be according to the names of the tribes of Israel. There shall be three gates from the north: the gate of Reuben one, the gate of Judah one, the gate of Levi one.
32	And to the eastern region, there shall be four thousand and five hundred. And there shall be three gates: the gate of Joseph one, the gate of Benjamin one, the gate of Dan one.
33	And to the southern region, you shall measure four thousand and five hundred. And there shall be three gates: the gate of Simeon one, the gate of Issachar one, the gate of Zebulun one.
34	And to the western region, there shall be four thousand and five hundred, and their three gates: the gate of Gad one, the gate of Asher one, the gate of Naphtali one.
35	Along circumference, there shall be eighteen thousand. And the name of the city, from that day, shall be: ‘The Lord is in that very place.’ ”