1	Paul, an Apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, to all the saints who are at Ephesus and to the faithful in Christ Jesus.
2	Grace and peace to you from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
3	Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavens, in Christ,
4	just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, so that we would be holy and immaculate in his sight, in charity.
5	He has predestined us to adoption as sons, through Jesus Christ, in himself, according to the purpose of his will,
6	for the praise of the glory of his grace, with which he has gifted us in his beloved Son.
7	In him, we have redemption through his blood: the remission of sins in accord with the riches of his grace,
8	which is superabundant in us, with all wisdom and prudence.
9	So does he make known to us the mystery of his will, which he has set forth in Christ, in a manner well-pleasing to him,
10	in the dispensation of the fullness of time, so as to renew in Christ everything that exists through him in heaven and on earth.
11	In him, we too are called to our portion, having been predestined in accord with the plan of the One who accomplishes all things by the counsel of his will.
12	So may we be, to the praise of his glory, we who have hoped beforehand in Christ.
13	In him, you also, after you heard and believed the Word of truth, which is the Gospel of your salvation, were sealed with the Holy Spirit of the Promise.
14	He is the pledge of our inheritance, unto the acquisition of redemption, to the praise of his glory.
15	Because of this, and hearing of your faith that is in the Lord Jesus, and of your love toward all the saints,
16	I have not ceased giving thanks for you, calling you to mind in my prayers,
17	so that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give a spirit of wisdom and of revelation to you, in knowledge of him.
18	May the eyes of your heart be illuminated, so that you may know what is the hope of his calling, and the wealth of the glory of his inheritance with the saints,
19	and the preeminent magnitude of his virtue toward us, toward we who believe in accord with the work of his powerful virtue,
20	which he wrought in Christ, raising him from the dead and establishing him at his right hand in the heavens,
21	above every principality and power and virtue and dominion, and above every name that is given, not only in this age, but even in the future age.
22	And he has subjected all things under his feet, and he has made him the head over the entire Church,
23	which is his body and which is the fullness of him who accomplishes everything in everyone.