1	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
2	Speak to the sons of Israel, and they shall turn back and shall encamp before the mouth of Hahiroth, between Migdol and between the sea, before Baal-Zephon: before them shall ye encamp by the sea.
3	And Pharaoh will say concerning the sons of Israel, They are wandering in perplexity in the land; the desert closed upon them.
4	And I bound fast Pharaoh’s heart, and he pursued after them; and I will be honored in Pharaoh and all his army; and the Egyptians shall know that I am Jehovah. And they will do so.
5	And it was announced to the king of Egypt that the people fled: and the heart of Pharaoh will be turned, and his servants, against the people, and they will say, What this we did, that we sent forth Israel from serving us?
6	And he will harness his chariot, and he took his people with him.
7	And he will take six hundred chosen chariots, and all the horsemen of Egypt, and rulers over them all.
8	And Jehovah will bind fast the heart of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and he will pursue after the sons of Israel: and the sons of Israel went forth with a high hand.
9	And the Egyptians will pursue after them, and they will enclose them, having encamped by the sea; all the horse, the chariots of Pharaoh, and his horsemen and his army, by the mouth of Hahiroth, before Baal-Zephon.
10	And Pharaoh drew near, and the sons of Israel will lift up their eyes, and behold, Egypt encamped behind them; and they will be exceedingly afraid: and the sons of Israel will cry to Jehovah.
11	And they will say to Moses, Because no tombs are in Egypt, didst thou take us to die in the desert? what this thou didst to us to bring us forth out of Egypt?
12	Is not this the word which we spake to thee in Egypt, saying, Desist from us, and we will serve the Egyptians? For it is good to us to serve Egypt rather than that we died in the desert.
13	And Moses will say to the people, Ye shall not fear; stand ye and see the deliverance of Jehovah, which he will do to you this day: for the Egyptians whom ye saw this day, ye shall not add to see them more forever.
14	Jehovah will wage war for you and ye shall be silent.
15	And Jehovah will say to Moses, Why wilt thou cry to me? speak to the sons of Israel and they shall remove.
16	And thou, lift up thy rod, and stretch forth thy hand over the sea, and break it up: and the sons of Israel shall go in the midst of the sea on dry land.
17	And I, behold me binding fast the heart of the Egyptians, and they shall go after them: and I will be honored in Pharaoh, and upon all his army, and in his chariots, and in his horsemen.
18	And the Egyptians shall know that I am Jehovah in the getting me honor in Pharaoh, in his chariots and in his horsemen.
19	And the messenger of God going before the camp of Israel will remove, and will go from behind them; and the pillar of the cloud will remove from before them, and will stand from behind them,
20	And it will come between the camp of Egypt and between the camp of Israel; and it will be the cloud, and the darkness, and it will make the night light: and this drew not near to this all the night.
21	And Moses will stretch forth his hand over the sea, and Jehovah will cause the sea to go by a strong east wind all the night; and he will set the sea for dry land, and the waters will be rent.
22	And the sons of Israel will go in the midst of the sea on dry land; and the waters to them a wall from their right hand and from their left.
23	And the Egyptians will pursue and will go after them, all the horse of Pharaoh and his chariots and his horsemen to the midst of the sea.
24	And it will be in the watch of the morning, Jehovah will look forth to the camp of Egypt in the pillar of fire and the cloud, and he will disturb the camp of Egypt.
25	And he will remove the wheel of their chariots, and they will drive in heaviness; and Egypt will say, I will flee from the face of Israel; for Jehovah waged war for them against Egypt.
26	And Jehovah will say to Moses, Stretch forth thy hand over the sea, and the waters shall turn back upon Egypt, upon its chariots and upon its horsemen.
27	And Moses will stretch forth his hand over the sea, and the sea will turn back before the morning to its perpetuity. And the Egyptians fled at meeting it, and Jehovah will shake off Egypt in the midst of the sea.
28	And the waters will turn back, and will cover the chariots and the horsemen, to all Pharaoh’s army coming after them into the sea: and there was not left among them even one.
29	And the sons of Israel came upon dry land in the midst of the sea; and the waters were to them a wall from the right hand and from the left.
30	And Jehovah will save Israel in that day, from the hand of Egypt: and Israel will see the Egyptians dead upon the lip of the sea.
31	And Israel will see the great hand which Jehovah did upon Egypt; and the people will fear Jehovah, and they will believe in Jehovah, and in Moses his servant.