1	Then will Moses sing, and the sons of Israel, this song to Jehovah; and they will speak, saying, I will sing to Jehovah, for exalting himself, he was exalted: the horse and his horsemen he threw into the sea.
2	Jehovah my strength and song, and he shall be to me for salvation: this my God, and I will cause him to rest; the God of my father, and I will exalt him.
3	Jehovah, a man of war: Jehovah his name.
4	The chariots of Pharaoh and his army he threw into the sea; his chosen rulers sank in the sea of sedge.
5	The depths will cover them: they will go down into the deep as a stone.
6	Thy right hand, Jehovah, was magnified in strength: thy right hand, Jehovah, will break in pieces the enemy.
7	And in the multitude of thy majesty thou wilt destroy those rising up against thee: thou wilt send forth thine anger; it shall eat them as straw.
8	And by the spirit of thine anger the waters shook them off, the flowings stood up as a heap: the depths were contracted in the heart of the sea.
9	The enemy said, I will pursue, I will enclose, I will divide the spoil: my soul shall be filled with them: I will draw out my sword, my hand shall dispossess them.
10	Thou didst blow with thy spirit; the sea covered them: they rolled down as lead in the great waters.
11	Who like thee among the gods, O Jehovah? who like thee magnified in in holiness, wonderful in praise, doing a wonder?
12	Thou didst stretch forth thy right hand, the earth will swallow them.
13	Thou didst lead in thy kindness this people thou didst redeem: thou didst conduct with thy strength to thy holy dwelling.
14	The peoples heard, and they will be angry: pain took those inhabiting Philistia.
15	Then the chiefs of Edom trembled; the mighty of Moab, trembling, shall take them; all those dwelling in Canaan melted away.
16	Dread shall fall upon them and terror: by the greatness of thine arm they shall be dumb as a stone; till thy people pass over, O Jehovah: till this people pass over, thou didst buy.
17	Thou shalt bring them in and shalt plant them in the mountain of thine inheritance, into the place of thy Sabbath, thou didst make, O Jehovah: a holy place, O Jehovah, which thy hands prepared.
18	Jehovah shall reign forever and yet.
19	For the horse of Pharaoh went in with his chariots and with his horsemen, into the sea, and Jehovah will turn back over them the water of the sea: and the sons of Israel went on the dry land in the midst of the sea.
20	And Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, will take the drum in her hand; and all the women will go forth after her, with drums and with lutes.
21	And Miriam will sing to them, Sing ye to Jehovah; for being lifted up, he was lifted up: the horse and his horseman he threw into the sea.
22	And Moses will remove Israel from the sea of sedge, and they will come forth to the desert of Shur; and they will go three days into the desert, and they found not water.
23	And they will come to Marah, and they will not be able to drink the waters of Marah, for they are bitter: for this he called the name bitterness.
24	And the people will murmur against Moses, saying, What shall we drink?
25	And he will cry to Jehovah, and Jehovah will show him a tree, and he will cast into the waters, and the waters will become sweet: then he set to him a law and judgment, and there he tried him.
26	And he will say, If hearkening thou wilt hear to the voice of Jehovah thy God, and thou wilt do the right in his eyes, and give ear to his commands, and watch all his laws, every disease which I put upon Egypt I will not put upon thee: for I am Jehovah healing thee.
27	And they will come to Ailam; and twelve fountains of water there, and seventy palm trees: and they encamped there by the waters.