1	And all the assembly of the sons of Israel will remove from the desert of Sin, according to their removings by the mouth of Jehovah; and they will encamp in Rephidim; and no water for the people to drink.
2	And the people contended with Moses, and they will say, Give to us water and we will drink. And Moses will say to them, Why will ye contend with me, and why will ye tempt Jehovah?
3	And the people will thirst there for water; and the people will murmur against Moses, and will say, For what this did ye bring us up out of Egypt to kill us and our sons and our cattle with thirst?
4	And Moses will cry to Jehovah, saying, What shall I do to this people? yet a little and they will stone me.
5	And Jehovah will say to Moses, Pass over before the people and take with thee from the old men of Israel; and thy rod which thou didst strike with it the river, take in thy hand and go.
6	And behold, I stand before thee there upon the rock in Horeb; and strike upon the rock, and waters shall come forth from it, and the people drank. And Moses will do so before the eyes of the old men of Israel.
7	And he will call the name of the place, Temptation, and Strife, for the contention of the sons of Israel, and because they tempted Jehovah, saying, Is Jehovah in the midst of us or not?
8	And Amalek will come and will wage war with Israel, in Rephidim.
9	And Moses will say to Joshua, Choose to us men, and go forth, wage war with Amalek: to-morrow I stand upon the head of the hill and the rod of God in my band.
10	And Joshua will do as Moses said to him to wage war with Amalek: and Moses, Aaron and Hur, went up to the head of the hill.
11	And it was as Moses will lift up his hand, Israel prevailed: and as he will put down his hand and Amalek prevailed.
12	And the hands of Moses were heavy; and they will take a stone and put under him, and he will sit upon it: and Aaron and Hur took hold upon his hands, one from here, and one from there; and his hands will be in firmness till the sun went forth.
13	And Joshua will overthrow Amalek and his people with the mouth of the sword.
14	And Jehovah will say to Moses, Write this a remembrance in the book, and set in the ears of Joshua: for wiping off I will wipe off the remembrance of Amalek from under the heavens.
15	And Moses will build an altar, and he will call its name, Jehovah my Standard.
16	For he will say, Because the hand upon the throne of Jehovah, war to Jehovah with Amalek from generation to generation.