1	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
2	Speak to the sons of Israel, and they shall take for me an offering: from every man whose heart shall impel him, ye shall take my offerings.
3	And this the offering which ye shall take from them; gold, and silver, and brass.
4	Cerulean purple, and reddish purple, and double scarlet and fine cotton, and goats’ hair,
5	And skins of rams made red, and tahash skins, and acacia wood;
6	Oil for a light, spices for the oil of the anointing, and for the incense of aromatics;
7	And stones of onyx, and stones filling up for the ephod and the breastplate.
8	And make ye to me a holy place; and I will abide in the midst of you.
9	According to all which I having shewn to thee, the pattern of the tent and the pattern of all its vessels; and thus shall ye do.
10	And make ye an ark of acacia wood: two cubits and a half its length, a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height.
11	And thou shalt spread pure gold over it, from within and from without thou shalt spread over it; and make to it a wreath of gold round about.
12	And thou shalt cast to at four rings of gold, and give upon its four steps: and two rings upon its one side, and two rings upon its second side.
13	And make bars of acacia wood, and spread over them gold.
14	And bring the bars into the rings upon the sides of the ark, to lift up the ark with them.
15	The bars shall be in the rings of the ark: they shall not remove from them.
16	And give to the ark the testimony which I shall give to thee.
17	And make a cover of pure gold: two cubits and a half its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth;
18	And make two cherubs of gold; of turned work shalt thou make them, from the two ends of the cover.
19	And make the one cherub from this end, and one cherub from this end: thus of the mercy seat shall ye make the cherubs upon its two ends.
20	And the cherubs shall be spreading their wings on high, covering with their wings over the cover; and their faces each to the other; to the cover shall be the faces of the cherubs.
21	And give the cover upon the ark from on high; and to the ark thou shalt give the testimony which I shall give to thee.
22	And I was known to thee there, and I spake to thee from above the cover, from between the two cherubs which are upon the ark of the testimony, all which I shall command thee to the sons of Israel.
23	And make a table of acacia wood; two cubits its length, and a cubit its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height.
24	And spread over it pure gold, and make to it a wreath of gold round about.
25	And thou shalt make to it a closing a hand breadth round about, and make a wreath of gold to its closing round about.
26	And make to it four gold rings, and give the rings upon the four parts which are to its four feet.
27	And over against the closings shall be the rings for houses for the bars to lift up the table.
28	And make the bars of acacia wood, and spread over them gold, and lift up with them the table.
29	And make its dishes, and its censers, and its bowls, and its bowls for libation which to pour into them, pure gold shalt thou make them.
30	Give upon the table the bread of the face before me continually.
31	And make a candlestick pure gold: turned work shalt thou make the candlestick: its thigh, its shaft, its cups, its chaplets, and flowers, shall be from it.
32	And six stems coming out from its sides; three branches of the chandelier from the one side, and three stems of the chandelier from the second side.
33	Three bowls made like almonds, in one stem a chaplet and a flower; and three bowls made like almonds in the one stem, a chaplet and a flower: thus to the six stems going forth from the chandelier.
34	And in the chandelier, four bowls made like almonds, its chaplets and its flowers.
35	And a chaplet under two stems from it, and a chaplet under two stems from it, and a chaplet under two stems from it, to the six stems coming out of the chandelier.
36	Their chaplets and their stems shall be from it: all of it one turned work of pure gold.
37	And make its seven lights: and raise up its lights to give light over against its face.
38	And its tongs and its fire pans, pure gold.
39	A talent of pure gold he shall make it, with all these vessels.
40	And see, and make in their pattern which thou wert seeing in the mountain.