1	And this the word thou shall do to them to consecrate them, to be priests to me: Take one bullock, the son of a cow, two complete rams,
2	And unleavened bread, and unleavened cakes, poured over with oil, and thin unleavened cakes, anointed with oil: of fine flour of wheat thou shalt make them.
3	And put them upon one basket, and bring them near in the basket with the bullock and the two rams.
4	And Aaron and his sons thou shalt bring near to the door of the tent of the appointment, and wash them in water.
5	And take the garments, and put upon Aaron the tunic and the robe of the ephod, and the ephod, and the breast-plate, and gird on him with the girdle of the ephod.
6	And put the turban upon his head, and give the holy diadem upon the turban.
7	And take the oil of anointing, and thou shalt pour upon his head and anoint him.
8	And his sons thou shalt bring near and put tunics upon them.
9	And gird them with girdles, Aaron and his sons, and bind to them turbans; and the priesthood shall be to them for a law forever: and fill the hand of Aaron and the hand of his sons.
10	And bring near the bullock before the tent of the appointment; and Aaron and his sons put their hands upon the head of the bullock,
11	And slaughter the bullock before Jehovah at the door of the tent of the appointment.
12	And take from the blood of the bullock, and give upon the horns of the altar with thy finger, and all the blood thou shalt pour at the foundation of the altar.
13	And take all the fat of the covering upon the bowels, and the lobes upon the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and burn upon the altar.
14	And the flesh of the bullock and his skin, and his dung shalt thou burn with fire from without the camp: this the sin.
15	And the one ram thou shalt take; and Aaron and his sons put their hands upon the head of the ram.
16	And slaughter the ram, and take his blood and sprinkle upon the altar round about.
17	And the ram thou shalt cut into his pieces, and wash his bowels, and his legs, and give upon his pieces and upon his head.
18	And burn all the ram upon the altar: this a burnt-offering to Jehovah: this a sacrifice, a smell of a sweet odor to Jehovah.
19	And take the second ram; and Aaron put, and his sons, their hands upon the head of the ram.
20	And slaughter the ram, and take from his blood, and give upon the extremity of the ear of Aaron, and upon the extremity of the right ear of his sons, and upon the thumb of their right hand, and upon the great toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about.
21	And take from the blood that is upon the altar, and of the oil of anointing, and sprinkle upon Aaron, and upon his garments, and upon his sons, and upon the garments of his sons with him: and he shall be consecrated, and his garments and the garments of his sons with him.
22	And take from the ram the fat and the fat tail, and the fat covering the bowels, and the lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat which is upon them, and the right leg, for it is a ram of fulness.
23	And one round of bread, and one cake of fat bread, and one thin cake from the basket of the unleavened that is before Jehovah.
24	And put all upon the hands of Aaron and upon the hands of his sons; and lift them up a waving before Jehovah.
25	And thou shalt take them from their hand and burn upon the altar upon the burnt-offering for a smell of sweet odor before Jehovah: this a sacrifice to Jehovah.
26	And take the breast from the ram of completion which is to Aaron, and lift up a waving before Jehovah: and it was to thee for a portion.
27	And consecrate the breast of the waving and the shoulder of the offering, which shall be lifted up, and which is lifted up from the ram of fulness from that to Aaron, and from that to his sons.
28	And it was to Aaron and to his sons for a law forever from the sons of Israel: for it is an offering; and it shall be an offering from the sons of Israel from the sacrifices of peace their offerings to Jehovah.
29	And the garments of the holy place which are to Aaron shall be to his sons after him to anoint them in them, and to fill in them their hands.
30	Seven days he from his sons being priest in his stead, shall put them on when he shall come into the tent of the appointment to serve in the holy place.
31	And the ram of completion thou shalt take and boil his flesh in the holy place.
32	And Aaron shall eat and his sons, the flesh of the ram, and the bread that is in the basket by the door of the of appointment.
33	And they shall eat these which covered up in them to fill their hand to consecrate them: and a stranger shall not eat for they are holy.
34	And if there shall remain from the flesh of the completions, and from the bread, till the morning, burn the remainder with fire, for it shall not be eaten for it is holy.
35	And do to Aaron and to his sons, thus according to all which I commanded thee: seven days shalt thou fill their hand.
36	And the bullock of sin, thou shalt do in the day of expiations, and make an atonement upon the altar in thy making an atonement upon its and anoint it to consecrate it.
37	Seven days thou shalt expiate upon the altar, and consecrate it; and it was the holy altar of holies: all touching upon the altar shall be holy.
38	This which thou shalt do upon the altar; two he lambs the sons of a year for the day continually.
39	The one he lamb thou shalt do in the morning; and the second he lamb thou shalt do between the two evenings.
40	A tenth of fine flour mixed with beaten oil, the fourth of an hin, and a libation, the fourth of an hin of wine, for the one he lamb.
41	And the second he lamb thou shalt do between the two evenings, according to the sacrifice of the morning, and according to its libation, thou shalt do it for a smell of sweet odor, a sacrifice to Jehovah.
42	A burnt-offering of continuance for your generations at the door of the tent of appointment before Jehovah, where I will meet with you there, to speak to thee there.
43	And I met with the sons of Israel there; and it shall be consecrated by my glory.
44	And I consecrated the tent of appointment, and the altar; and Aaron and his sons I will consecrate to be priests to me.
45	And I dwelt in the midst of the sons of Israel, and I was to them for God.
46	And they shall know that I am Jehovah their God, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, to dwell in the midst of them; I Jehovah their God.