1	And make an altar for burning incense: of acacia wood shalt thou make it.
2	A cubit its length, a cubit its breadth; it shall be four-square; and two cubits its height: its horns out of it.
3	And spread it over with pure gold its top, and its walls round about, and its horns: and make to it a gold wreath round about.
4	And two gold rings shalt thou make to it from under its crown, upon its two ribs, shalt thou make upon its two sides; and it was for inner parts for staves to lift it up by them.
5	And make staves of acacia wood, and spread them over with gold.
6	And give it before the vail that is upon the ark of the testimonies, before the cover which is upon the testimonies, where I will meet with thee there.
7	And Aaron to burn upon it incense of spices in the morning: in the morning in his adorning the lamps, he shall burn incense upon it.
8	And in Aaron’s causing the lamps, to ascend between the two evenings, he shall burn incense upon it; continually before Jehovah for your generations.
9	And ye shall not bring up upon it strange incense; and a burnt-offering, a sacrifice and a libation thou shalt not pour out upon it.
10	And Aaron to expiate upon its horns once in a year, from the blood of the sin of the expiation: once in a year he shall expiate upon it for your generations: it is holy of holies to Jehovah.
11	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
12	When thou shalt take up the head of the sons of Israel for their reviewing, and they gave each a ransom of his soul to Jehovah, and in reviewing them; and a stumble shall not be in them in reviewing them.
13	This they shall give, all passing by upon their reviewing, from half the shekel by the holy shekel; (twenty gerahs the shekel:) from half a shekel an offering to Jehovah.
14	All passing by upon their reviewing, from the son of twenty years and above, shall give an offering to Jehovah.
15	The rich one shall not multiply, and the poor one shall not diminish from half the shekel, to give an offering to Jehovah to expiate for your souls.
16	And take the silver of the expiations from the sons of Israel and give it for the work of the tent of appointment; and it was for the sons of Israel a remembrance before Jehovah to expiate for your souls.
17	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
18	Make a brass wash-basin, and its pedestal brass, for washing: and give it between the tent of appointment and between the altar, and give water there.
19	And Aaron and his son washed from it their hands and their feet.
20	In their coming into the tent of appointment, they shall wash with water, and they shall not die: or in their drawing near to the altar to serve, to burn a sacrifice to Jehovah.
21	And they shall wash their hands and their feet, and they shall not die: and it was to them a law forever, to him and to his seed and to their generations.
22	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying.
23	Take thou to thee spices of head of flowing myrrh, five hundred: and fragrant cinnamon of its half, fifty and two hundred; and fragrant reed, fifty and two hundred.
24	And cassia, five hundred by the holy shekel, and the oil of olive, a hin:
25	And make it an oil a holy anointing, a perfumed unguent the work of the perfumer: it shall be an oil a holy anointing.
26	And anoint the tent of appointment, and the ark of the testimony,
27	And the table and all its vessels and the chandelier and its vessels, and the altar of incense,
28	And the altar of burnt-offering and all its vessels, and the wash-basin and its pedestal.
29	And consecrate them, and they shall be holy of holies; every one touching upon them shall be holy.
30	And Aaron and his sons thou shalt anoint and consecrate them to be priests to me.
31	And to the sons of Israel thou shalt speak, saying, An oil a holy anointing shall this be to me for your generations.
32	Upon the flesh of man it shall not be poured, and according to its measure ye shall not make like it: it is holy; holy shall it be to you.
33	A man who shall perfume like it, and shall give to the stranger, and he shall be cut off from his people.
34	And Jehovah will say to Moses, Take to thee aromatics, resin, and onycha, and galbanum; aromatics and pure frankincense: it shall be part for part.
35	And make it a perfume, an ointment, a work of the perfumer, salted, pure, holy.
36	And pound fine from it to small dust, and give from it before the testimony in the tent of appointment where I will meet with thee there: holy of holies, shall it be to you.
37	And the perfume which thou shalt make, according to its measure ye shall not make to you: it shall be holy to you for Jehovah.
38	A man who shall make like it to smell in it, and he shall be cut off from his people.