1	And Moses will convoke together all the assembly of the sons of Israel, and will say to them, These the words which Jehovah commanded to do them.
2	Six days thou shalt do work and in the seventh day a holy cessation, a cessation to Jehovah: all doing work in it shall die.
3	Ye shall not burn a fire in all your dwellings in the day of the rest.
4	And Moses will say to all the assembly of the sons of Israel, saying, This the word which Jehovah commanded, saying,
5	Take ye from you an offering to Jehovah: all of a willing heart shall bring an offering to Jehovah; gold and silver and brass,
6	And cerulean purple, and red purple, and double scarlet, and byssus, and goats’ hair,
7	And skins of rams made red, and tahash skins, and acacia wood,
8	And oil for the light, and aromatics for the oil of anointing and for the fragrant incense,
9	And stones of onyx, and stones of filling up for the ephod, and for the breast-plate.
10	And all the wise of heart among you shall come, and shall do all which Jehovah commanded;
11	The temple, its tent, and its covering, its hooks, and its boards, its bars, and its pillars, and its bases;
12	The ark and its staves, the cover, and vail of the covering;
13	The table and its staves and all its vessels, and the bread of the face;
14	And the chandelier of the light, and its vessels, and its lamps, and the oil of the light;
15	And the altar of incense, and its staves, and the oil of anointing, and the incense of aromatics, and the covering of the door at the door of the temple;
16	The altar of burnt-offering, and the grate of brass which is to it, its staves, and all its vessel; and the washbasin and its base;
17	The curtains of the enclosure, its pillars, its bases, and the covering of the gate of the enclosure;
18	And the pegs of the temple, and the pegs of the enclosure and their cords;
19	The garments of service to serve in the holy place; the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons to be priests.
20	And all the assembly of the sons of Israel will go forth from before Moses.
21	And they will come, every man whose heart lifted him up and every one whose spirit impelled him, and they brought the offering of Jehovah to the work of the tent of appointment, and for all its work, and for the garments of the holy place.
22	And they will come, the men with the women, all of a willing heart, they brought rings, and ear-rings, and seals, and globules of gold, all vessels of gold: and every man who lifted up a waving of gold to Jehovah.
23	And every man with whom was found cerulean purple, and red purple, and double scarlet, and byssus, and goats’ hair, and skins of rams made red, and tahash skins, brought.
24	All lifting up an offering of silver and brass, brought the offering of Jehovah: and all with whom was found acacia wood for all the work of the service, brought.
25	And every woman wise of heart spun with her hands, and they will bring the spinning, the cerulean purple, and the red purple, the double scarlet and the byssus.
26	And all the women whose heart was lifted up in wisdom, spun goats’ hair.
27	And the chiefs brought stones of onyx, and stones of filling up for the ephod, and for the breast-plate.
28	And spice and oil for the light and for the oil of anointing, and for the incense of aromatics.
29	Every man and woman whose heart impelled them to bring for all the work which Jehovah commanded to be done by the hand of Moses, the sons of Israel brought a voluntary gift to Jehovah.
30	And Moses will say to the sons of Israel, See, Jehovah called by name Bezaleel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah.
31	And he will fill him with the spirit of God, in wisdom, in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all work;
32	And to invent works of skill, to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass,
33	And in working stone for filling in, and in working wood, to work in all work of works of skill.
34	He gave in his heart to teach, he and Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.
35	He filled them with wisdom of heart, to do all the work of engraving, of inventing, and variegating in cerulean purple, and in red purple, and in double scarlet, and in byssus, and of weaving, and of those doing all work, and of those devising works of skill.