1	And Bezaleel will make the ark acacia wood: two cubits and a half its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height.
2	And he will spread it over with pure gold within and without, and he will make to it a gold wreath round about.
3	And he will cast for it four rings of gold over its four steps, and two rings upon its one rib, and two rings upon its second rib.
4	And he will make poles of acacia wood, and he will spread them over with gold.
5	And he will bring the bars into the rings over the ribs of the ark to lift up the ark.
6	And he will make the cover of pure gold: two cubits and a half its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth.
7	And he will make two cherubs of gold of turned work; he made them from the two ends of the cover.
8	One cherub from the end from this, and one cherub from the end from this: out of the cover he made the cherubs out of its two ends.
9	And the cherubs shall be spreading out the wings from upwards, covering with their wings over the cover, and their faces each to his brother: to the cover were the faces of the cherubs.
10	And he will make the table acacia wood: two cubits its length, and a cubit its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height.
11	And he will spread it over with pure gold, and he will make to it a wreath of gold round about.
12	And he will make to it a border a hand bread round about; and he will make a wreath of gold for its enclosing round about.
13	And he will cast for it four rings of gold, and set the rings upon the four sides which are for its four feet.
14	Over against the border were the rings, the inner parts for the poles to lift up the table.
15	And he will make the poles of acacia wood, and he will spread them over with gold to lift up the table.
16	And he will make the vessels which are upon the table, its dishes, and its pans, and its bowls, and its libation cups which poured out in them, of pure gold.
17	He will make the chandelier pure gold; turned work he made the chandelier; its thigh and its stem, its bowls, its chaplets and its flowers were from it.
18	And six stems coming forth out of its sides; three stems of the chandelier from the one side, and three stems of the chandelier from the second side.
19	Three bowls made like almonds, in the one stem, a chaplet and a flower; and three bowls made like almonds, in one stem, a chaplet and a flower: thus for the six stems coming forth out of the chandelier.
20	And in the chandelier four bowls made like almonds, its chaplets and its flowers.
21	And a chaplet under two stems out of it, and a chaplet under two stems out of it, and a chaplet under two stems out of it, for the six stems coming forth out of it.
22	Their chaplets and their stems were out of it: all of it a turned work of pure gold.
23	He will make its seven lamps and its snuffers, and its fire pans of pure gold.
24	A talent of pure gold he made it and all its vessels.
25	He will make the altar of incense of acacia wood: a cubit its length and a cubit its breadth; quadrated; and two cubits its height; out of it were its horns.
26	And he will spread it over with pure gold, its top and its walls round about, and its horns: and he will make to it a wreath of gold round about.
27	And two rings of gold he made to it from underneath for its wreath, upon its two ribs, upon its two sides for the inner parts for the poles to lift it up by them.
28	And he will make the poles of acacia wood, and he will spread them over with gold.
29	And he will make the holy oil of anointing and the pure incense of aromatics, the work of the perfumer.