1	And Moses will answer and say, And behold, they will not believe in me, and they will not bear to my voice: for they will say, Jehovah was not seen to thee.
2	And Jehovah will say to him, What this in thy hand? and he will say, A rod.
3	And he will say, Cast it upon the earth. And he will cast it upon the earth and it will be into a serpent, and Moses will flee from before it.
4	And Jehovah will say to Moses, Stretch forth thy hand, and seize by its tail. And he will stretch forth his hand, and will hold fast upon it, and it will be for a rod in his hand.
5	That they shall believe that Jehovah was seen to thee, the God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaak, and the God of Jacob.
6	And Jehovah will say to him yet again, Bring now thy hand into thy bosom. And he will bring his hand into his bosom, and he will bring it forth, and behold his hand leprous as snow.
7	And he will say, Turn back thy hand into thy bosom. And he will turn back his hand into his bosom, and he will bring it forth from his bosom, and behold, it turned back as his flesh.
8	And it shall be if they will not believe in thee, and will not hear to the voice of the first sign, and they believed the voice of the latter sign.
9	And it shall be, if they will not believe in the two signs, and will not hear to thy voice, and take thou from the water of the river and pour out upon the dry; and the water which thou shalt take from the river shall be and shall be for blood upon the dry.
10	And Moses will say to Jehovah, With leave my Lord, not a man of words, also from yesterday, also from the third day, also from the time of thy speaking to thy servant; for I being heavy of mouth, and heavy of tongue.
11	And Jehovah will say to him, Who set a mouth to man? or who set the dumb, or deaf, or the seeing, or blind? is it not I Jehovah?
12	And now go, and I will be with thy mouth, and teach thee what thou shalt say.
13	And he will say, With leave, my Lord, send by the hand thou shalt send.
14	And Jehovah will be angry with anger against Moses, and he will say, Is not Aaron thy brother, the Levite? I know that speaking, he will speak. And also behold him coming forth to thy meeting: and seeing thee and rejoicing in his heart.
15	And speak to him, and put words in his mouth: and I will be with thy mouth, and with his mouth, and teach you what ye shall do.
16	And he the word for thee to the people: and being, he shall be to thee for a mouth, and thou shalt be to him for God.
17	And this rod shalt thou take in thy hand, with which thou shalt do signs.
18	And Moses will go and turn back to Jethro his father-in-law, and will say to him, I will go now and turn back to my brethren which are in Egypt, and I will see whether they are yet living. And Jethro will say to Moses, Go in peace.
19	And Jehovah will say to Moses in Midian, Go, turn back to Egypt, for all the men died having sought thy soul.
20	And Moses will take his wife and his sons, and will cause them to ride upon an ass, and he will turn back to the land of Egypt And Moses will take the rod of God in his hand.
21	And Jehovah will say to Moses, In thy going to turn back to Egypt, see all the wonders which I put in thy hand: do them before Pharaoh; and I will bind fast his heart and he shall not send forth the people.
22	And say thou to Pharaoh, So said Jehovah, my first-born son is Israel.
23	And saying to thee, Send forth my son, and he shall save me: and shalt thou refuse to send him, behold me killing thy son, thy first-born.
24	And it shall be in the way in the inn, and Jehovah will meet with him and will seek to kill him.
25	And Zipporah will take a stone, and will cut off the uncircumcision her son, and will come to his feet, and will say, For a spouse of bloods, thou to me.
26	And he will desist from him: then she said, A husband of bloods, for the circumcision.
27	And Jehovah will say to Aaron, Go to the meeting of Moses, to the desert And he will go, and will meet with him in the mount of God, and will kiss him.
28	And Moses will announce to Aaron all the words of Jehovah who sent him, and all the signs which he commanded him.
29	And Moses will go, and Aaron, and they will gather together all the old men of the sons of Israel.
30	And Aaron will speak all the words which Jehovah spoke to Moses, and he will do the signs in the eyes of the people.
31	And the people will believe: and they will hear that Jehovah reviewed the sons of Israel, and that he saw their affliction, and they will bow down and worship.