1	And Jehovah will say to Moses, Now thou shalt see what I will do to Pharaoh: for with a strong hand will he send them forth, and with a strong hand will he drive them out of his land.
2	And God will speak to Moses, and will say to him, I am Jehovah.
3	And I shall be seen to Abraham, to Isaak, and to Jacob, by God Almighty; and my name Jehovah I was not known to them.
4	And also have I set my covenant with them to give to them the land of Canaan, the land of their sojournings, which they sojourned upon it.
5	And also I heard the groaning of the sons of Israel whom the Egyptians have made to serve: and I will remember my covenant.
6	For this say thou to the sons of Israel, I am Jehovah, and I brought you forth from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I delivered you from their work, and I redeemed you with an arm stretched out and with great judgments.
7	And I took you to me for a people, and I was to you for God: and ye knew that I was Jehovah your God, having brought you forth from under the burdens of the Egyptians.
8	And I brought you to a land which I lifted up my hand to give it to Abraham, to Isaak, and to Jacob, and I gave it to you a possession: I am Jehovah.
9	And Moses spake thus to the sons of Israel: and they heard not to Moses for shortness of spirit, and from hard work.
10	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
11	Go, speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he shall send forth the sons of Israel out of Egypt.
12	And Moses will speak before Jehovah, saying, Behold, the sons of Israel heard not to me; and how shall Pharaoh hear me, and I of uncircumcised lips?
13	And Jehovah will speak to Moses and to Aaron and will command them to the sons of Israel, and to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring forth the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt.
14	These the heads of the house of their father: the sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel: Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron and Carmi: these the tribes of Reuben.
15	And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel and Jamin and Ohad and Jachin and Zohar and Saul, the son of a Canaanitess; these the tribes of Simeon.
16	And these the names of the sons of Levi, according to their generation; Gershon, and Kohath and Merari. And the years of the life of Levi, seven and thirty and a hundred years.
17	And the sons of Gershon, Libni and Shimi, according to their tribes.
18	And the sons of Kohath; Amram and Izhar and Hebron, and Uzziel: and the years of the life of Kohath, three and thirty and a hundred years.
19	And the sons of Merari: Mahali and Mushi: these the tribes of Levi according to their generations.
20	And Amram will take Jochebed his father’s sister, to him for a wife; and she will bare to him Aaron and Moses. And the years of the life of Amram, seven and thirty and a hundred years.
21	And the sons of Izhar; Korah and Nepheg and Zithri.
22	And the sons of Uzziel; Mishael and Elzaphan, Zithri.
23	And Aaron will take Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab, sister of Naashon, to him for a wife; and she will bare to him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
24	And the sons of Korah; Asir and Elkanah and Abiasaph; these the tribes of Korhites.
25	And Eleazar the son of Aaron, took to him from the daughters of Putiel, for a wife; and she will bare to him Phinehas: these the heads of the fathers of the Levites according to their tribes.
26	This Aaron and Moses, whom Jehovah said to them, Bring forth the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt with their army.
27	They having spoken to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring forth the sons of Israel out of Egypt; this Moses and Aaron.
28	And it will be in the day Jehovah spake to Moses in the land of Egypt.
29	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying, I am Jehovah; speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt, all which I say to thee.
30	And Moses will say before Jehovah, Behold, I of uncircumcised lips; and how shall Pharaoh hear to me?