1	And Jehovah will say to Moses, Go to Pharaoh, and speak to him, Thus said Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, Send forth my people and they shall serve me.
2	For if thou refusest to send forth, but yet thou holdest fast upon them,
3	Behold, the hand of Jehovah is upon thy cattle which are in the field; upon the horses, upon the asses, upon the camels, upon the oxen and upon the sheep: death exceedingly heavy.
4	And Jehovah separated between the cattle of Israel and between the cattle of Egypt: and nothing shall die from all the sons of Israel, spoken of.
5	And Jehovah will set an appointment, saying, To-morrow Jehovah will do this word in the land.
6	And Jehovah will do this word in the morrow, and all the cattle of Egypt will die: and from the cattle of the sons of Israel, not one died.
7	And Pharaoh will send, and behold, from the cattle of Israel, there died not even one And the heart of Pharaoh will be heavy, and he sent not forth the people.
8	And Jehovah will say to Moses and to Aaron, Take to you your two fists full of ashes of the furnace; and Moses sprinkled it towards the heavens in the eyes of Pharaoh.
9	And it was for dust upon all the land of Egypt, and it was upon man, and upon quadruped for a burning sore breaking forth with pustules over all the land of Egypt.
10	And they will take ashes of the furnace and will stand before Pharaoh; and Moses will sprinkle it towards the heavens; and it will be a burning sore, breaking forth with pustules upon man and upon quadruped.
11	And the sacred scribes will not be able to stand before Moses on account of the burning sore: for the burning sore was upon the sacred scribes, and in all Egypt.
12	And Jehovah will bind fast the heart of Pharaoh, and he heard not to them: as Jehovah spake to Moses.
13	And Jehovah will say to Moses, Rise early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh, and say to him, Thus said Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, Send forth my people, and they shall serve me.
14	For in this time I send all my plagues into thy heart, and upon thy servants, and upon thy people: so that thou shalt know that there is not as I in all the earth.
15	For now I sent forth my hand, and surely I will smite thee and thy people with death; and thou shalt be destroyed from the earth.
16	And yet for this I raised thee up in order to cause thee to see my strength; and for the sake of declaring my name in all the earth.
17	As yet lifting up thyself against my people not to send them forth?
18	Behold, I rain at this time to-morrow, hail exceedingly heavy, which was not as this in Egypt from the day it was founded even now.
19	And now send forth to secure thy cattle, and all which is to thee in the field: every man and quadruped which shall be found in the field, and shall not be gathered together to the house, and the hail shall come down upon them, and they shall die.
20	He fearing the word of Jehovah from the servants of Pharaoh, caused his servants to flee, and his cattle to the houses.
21	And he who set not his heart to the word of Jehovah, will leave his servants and his cattle in the field.
22	And Jehovah will say to Moses, Stretch forth thy hand toward the heavens, and there shall be hail upon all the land of Egypt, upon man and upon quadruped, and upon the green herb of the field in the land of Egypt.
23	And Moses will stretch forth his rod towards the heavens, and Jehovah gave voices, and hail; and fire will go upon the earth: and Jehovah will rain hail upon the land of Egypt.
24	And there will be hail and fire taking hold in the midst of the hail, exceedingly heavy, which was not as this upon all the land of Egypt from the time it was for a nation.
25	And the hail will strike in all the land of Egypt, all which is in the field, from man, and even to quadruped, and every green herb of the field; the hail smote and broke in pieces every tree of the field.
26	Only in the land of Goshen, there were the sons of Israel, was no hail.
27	And Pharaoh will send and call for Moses and for Aaron, and will say to them, I sinned this time: Jehovah is just, and I and my people unjust.
28	Pray ye to Jehovah and much, from there being voices of God and hail; and I will send you forth, and ye shall not add to stand.
29	And Moses will say to him, When I have gone forth from the city, I will spread forth my hands to Jehovah; the voices shall cease, and the hail shall be no more; for thou shalt know that to Jehovah is the earth.
30	And thou and thy servants, I knew that ye will not yet fear from before Jehovah God.
31	And the flax and the barley were struck: for the barley was ripe, and the flax high.
32	And the wheat and spelt were not struck, for they were late.
33	And Moses will go forth from Pharaoh out of the city, and he will spread forth his hands to Jehovah, and the voices will cease; and the hail and the rain was not poured upon the earth.
34	And Pharaoh will see that the rain ceased, and the hail and the voices; and he will add to sin, and he will make his heart heavy, he and his servants.
35	And Pharaoh’s heart will be bound fast, and he sent not forth the sons of Israel; as Jehovah spake by the hand of Moses.