1	Paul, the sent of Jesus Christ according to the command of God our Saviour, and Lord Jesus Christ, our hope;
2	To Timothy, genuine child in the faith: Grace, mercy, peace, from God our Father, and Jesus Christ our Lord.
3	As I besought thee to remain in Ephesus, going into Macedonia, that thou mightest proclaim to some not to teach another doctrine,
4	Neither hold to fictions and endless genealogies, which offer questions, rather than the arrangement of God in the faith:
5	(And the end of the proclamation is love out of a pure heart, and a good consciousness, and unfeigned faith:
6	Which some having missed turned away to vain discourse.
7	Wishing to be teachers of the law; neither understanding what they say, nor of certain things they are assured.
8	And we know the law good, if any use it lawfully;
9	Knowing this, that the law is laid down not for the just one, but for the lawless and disorderly, for the profane and sinful, for the wicked and unholy, for the patricides and matricides, for manslayers,
10	For fornicators, unchaste, manstealers, liars, the perjured, and if there be any other thing opposed to sound doctrine;
11	According to the good news of the glory of the blessed God, with which I was entrusted.
12	And I am grateful to Christ Jesus our Lord, having strengthened me, for he deemed me faithful, having set me in the service;
13	Being before slandering, expelling, and an abuser: but I was commiserated, because I did, not knowing, in unbelief.
14	And the grace of our Lord superabounded with faith and love in Christ Jesus.
15	Faithful the word, and worthy of all acceptance, for Christ Jesus came into the world to save the sinful; of whom I am first.
16	But for this was I commiserated, that in me first Jesus Christ might show forth all longsuffering, for a model to them about to believe on him to eternal life.
17	And to the King of times, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, honour and glory for the times of times. Amen.)
18	This proclamation I set before thee, child Timothy, according to the gifts of prophecy led before upon thee, that thou in them mightest war the good warfare;
19	Having faith, and a good consciousness; which some having rejected concerning faith suffered shipwreck:
20	Of whom is Hymeneus and Alexander; whom I have delivered to Satan, that they should not be taught to blaspheme.