1	An elder shouldest thou not reprove, but beseech as a father; the younger as brethren;
2	The elder women as mothers; the younger as sisters, in all purity.
3	Honour widows, truly widows.
4	And if any widow have children or descendants, let them learn first to be pious to their own house, and to return recompenses to their progenitors: for this is good and acceptable before God.
5	And she truly a widow, and forsaken, has hoped in God, and remains in supplications and prayers night and day.
6	And she living luxuriously is dead, living.
7	And these things proclaim, that they might be irreprehensible.
8	And if any for his own, and chiefly for his own household provide not, he has denied the faith, and is worse than the unbelieving.
9	Let not a widow be chosen less than sixty years, having been wife of one man,
10	Testified of in good works; if she have brought up children, if she lodged strangers, if she washed the feet of the holy, if she relieved the pressed, if she followed every good work.
11	And the younger widows reject: for when they conduct themselves arrogantly against Christ, they wish to marry:
12	Having judgment, for they put away the first faith.
13	And at the same time also they learn to be idle, going round about the houses; and not only idle, but also indulging in idle talk, and occupied with unnecessary things, speaking things not becoming.
14	I wish therefore the younger to marry, to bear children, to rule the house, to give no occasion to him opposing for reproach.
15	For already have some turned aside after Satan.
16	If any man or woman faithful have widows, let them relieve them, and let not the church be loaded; that it may relieve the truly widows.
17	Let the elders having presided well be deemed worthy of double honour, chiefly they being wearied in word and doctrine.
18	For the writing says, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox grinding. And, The laborer worthy of his hire.
19	Against an elder receive not an accusation from without, except from two or three witnesses.
20	Them having sinned rebuke before all, that the rest also have fear.
21	I call to witness before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, and the chosen angels, that thou watch these things without preference, doing nothing by bending.
22	Put hands swiftly upon none, nor participate in others’ sins: keep thyself pure.
23	Drink no longer water, but use a little wine for thy stomach and thy frequent weaknesses.
24	Some men’s sins are manifest, going before to judgment; and also to some they follow in the train.
25	Likewise also the good works of some are manifest; and having these otherwise, it cannot be hid.