1	Let as many servants as are under the yoke deem their own masters worthy of all honour, that the name of God and the doctrines be not defamed.
2	And let them having faithful masters not despise, for they are brethren; but rather let them serve, because they are faithful and dearly beloved, they having mutually received of the beneficence. These things teach and beseech.
3	If any teach otherwise, and come not up to the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine according to devotion;
4	He has been proud, knowing nothing, but sick about questions and disputes of words, of which is envy, strife, slanders, evil conjectures,
5	Unprofitable occupations of men corrupted in mind, and deprived of the truth, thinking gain to be devotion: be separated from such.
6	But devotion with contentment is great gain.
7	For we brought nothing into the world, it is manifest that neither are we able to carry anything out.
8	And having sustenance and covering, with these let us be contented.
9	And they wishing to be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and many eager desires, unwise and hurtful, which sink men into ruin and perdition.
10	For the root of all evils is the love of money: which some striving for, have been led astray from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many pains.
11	And thou, O man of God, flee these things; and follow justice, devotion, faith, love, patience, meekness.
12	Contend earnestly the good contest of faith, take hold upon eternal life, into which thou wert also called, and hast confessed the good confession before many witnesses.
13	I beseech thee before God, making all things alive, and Christ Jesus, he having witnessed to Pontius Pilate the good confession;
14	For thee to keep the command spotless, irreprehensible, until the appearance of our Lord Jesus Christ:
15	Which the blessed and only sovereign shall show in his own times, the King of those reigning, and Lord of those ruling;
16	Who only having immortality, inhabiting inaccessible light; which none of men saw, nor can see; to whom honour and might forever. Amen.
17	To the rich now in this life, proclaim not to be highminded, nor to be hoping upon the uncertainty of riches, but in the living God, offering us all things richly for profit;
18	To do good, to be rich in good works, to be liberal, qualified for participation;
19	Treasuring up to themselves a good foundation for the future, that they may lay hold upon eternal life.
20	O Timothy, watch that which holds firm, turning aside from profane, idle talk, and oppositions of knowledge, bearing a false name:
21	Which some proclaiming have missed their aim concerning the faith. Grace with thee. Amen.