1	The burden of the desert of the sea. Just as the whirlwinds approach from Africa, it approaches from the desert, from a terrible land.
2	A difficult vision has been announced to me: he who is unbelieving, he acts unfaithfully, and he who is a plunderer, he devastates. Ascend, O Elam! Lay siege, O Media! I have caused all its mourning to cease.
3	Because of this, my lower back has been filled with pain, and anguish has possessed me, like the anguish of a woman in labor. I fell down when I heard it. I was disturbed when I saw it.
4	My heart withered. The darkness stupefied me. Babylon, my beloved, has become a wonder to me.
5	Prepare the table. Contemplate, from a place of observation, those who eat and drink. Rise up, you leaders! Take up the shield!
6	For the Lord has said this to me: “Go and station a watchman. And let him announce whatever he will see.”
7	And he saw a chariot with two horsemen, and a rider on an donkey, and a rider on a camel. And he considered them diligently, with an intense gaze.
8	And a lion cried out: “I am on the watchtower of the Lord, standing continually by day. And I am at my station, standing throughout the night.
9	Behold, a certain man approaches, a man riding on a two-horse chariot.” And he responded, and he said: “Fallen, fallen is Babylon! And all its graven gods have been crushed into the earth!
10	O my threshed grain! O sons of my threshing floor! What I have heard from the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, I have announced to you.”
11	The burden of Dumah, cried out to me from Seir: “Watchman, how goes the night? Watchman, how goes the night?”
12	The watchman said: “Morning approaches with the night. If you are seeking: seek, and convert, and approach.”
13	The burden in Arabia. In the forest you shall sleep, in the evening on the paths of Dedanim.
14	You who inhabit the land of the south: upon meeting the thirsty, bring water; meet the fugitive with bread.
15	For they are fleeing before the face of swords, before the face of a sword hanging over them, before the face of a bent bow, before the face of a grievous battle.
16	For the Lord said this to me: “After one more year, just like one year for a hired hand, all the glory of Kedar will be taken away.
17	And the remainder of the multitude of strong archers from the sons of Kedar will be few, for the Lord, the God of Israel, has spoken it.”