1	Come on now, ye rich, weep, uttering loud cries of grief for the misfortunes coming upon you.
2	Your riches have become corrupted, and your garments have been moth eaten;
3	Your gold and silver is become rusty; and their rust shall be for a witness to you, and shall eat your flesh as fire. Ye have gathered up treasures in the last days.
4	Behold, the hire of laborers having reaped your farms, withheld by you, cries out, and the cries of the reapers have entered into the ears of the Lord of sabaoth.
5	Ye have led a luxurious life upon the earth, and have rioted in luxury; ye have nourished your hearts, as in the day of slaughter.
6	Ye have condemned, ye have killed the just one; and he resists you not.
7	Therefore be longsuffering, brethren, even to the arrival of the Lord. Behold, the farmer awaits the precious fruit of the earth, being longsuffering for it, even till he should receive the early and late rain.
8	Be longsuffering, ye also; make your hearts firm: for the arrival of the Lord has drawn near.
9	Groan not against one another, brethren, that ye be not condemned: behold, the judge stands before the door.
10	Take a pattern of affliction, my brethren, and of longsuffering, the prophets, who spake in the name of the Lord.
11	Behold, we esteem those enduring happy. Ye have heard of the patience of Job, and ye see the end of the Lord; that the Lord is very compassionate and merciful.
12	And before all things, my brethren, swear not, neither by heaven, nor by earth, nor any other oath: and let your yea be yea; and nay, nay; that ye fall not under judgment.
13	Does any suffer among you? let him pray. Is any cheerful? let him play on the harp.
14	Is any sick among you let him call for the elders of the church; and let them pray over him, having anointed him with oil in the name of the Lord:
15	And the prayer of faith shall save him being sick, and the Lord will raise him up; and if he should have wrought sins, it shall be remitted to him.
16	Acknowledge your faults to one another, and pray for one another, that ye might be healed. The prayer of the just, being energetic, is very powerful.
17	Elias was a man having similar feelings with us, and in prayer he prayed for it not to rain: and it rained not upon the earth for three years and six months.
18	And again he prayed, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth shot forth her fruit.
19	Brethren, if any among you be led astray from the truth, and any should turn him back;
20	Let him know, that he having turned the sinful from the error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall cover a multitude of sins.