1	And the LORD spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
2	Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, When any man has a running issue out of his flesh, because of his issue he is unclean.
3	And this shall be his uncleanness in his issue: whether his flesh run with his issue, or his flesh be stopped from his issue, it is his uncleanness.
4	Every bed, where on he lies that has the issue, is unclean: and every thing, where on he sits, shall be unclean.
5	And whoever touches his bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
6	And he that sits on any thing where on he sat that has the issue shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
7	And he that touches the flesh of him that has the issue shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
8	And if he that has the issue spit on him that is clean; then he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
9	And what saddle soever he rides on that has the issue shall be unclean.
10	And whoever touches any thing that was under him shall be unclean until the even: and he that bears any of those things shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
11	And whomsoever he touches that has the issue, and has not rinsed his hands in water, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
12	And the vessel of earth, that he touches which has the issue, shall be broken: and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed in water.
13	And when he that has an issue is cleansed of his issue; then he shall number to himself seven days for his cleansing, and wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in running water, and shall be clean.
14	And on the eighth day he shall take to him two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, and come before the LORD to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and give them to the priest:
15	And the priest shall offer them, the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering; and the priest shall make an atonement for him before the LORD for his issue.
16	And if any man’s seed of copulation go out from him, then he shall wash all his flesh in water, and be unclean until the even.
17	And every garment, and every skin, where on is the seed of copulation, shall be washed with water, and be unclean until the even.
18	The woman also with whom man shall lie with seed of copulation, they shall both bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the even.
19	And if a woman have an issue, and her issue in her flesh be blood, she shall be put apart seven days: and whoever touches her shall be unclean until the even.
20	And every thing that she lies on in her separation shall be unclean: every thing also that she sits on shall be unclean.
21	And whoever touches her bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
22	And whoever touches any thing that she sat on shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
23	And if it be on her bed, or on any thing where on she sits, when he touches it, he shall be unclean until the even.
24	And if any man lie with her at all, and her flowers be on him, he shall be unclean seven days; and all the bed where on he lies shall be unclean.
25	And if a woman have an issue of her blood many days out of the time of her separation, or if it run beyond the time of her separation; all the days of the issue of her uncleanness shall be as the days of her separation: she shall be unclean.
26	Every bed where on she lies all the days of her issue shall be to her as the bed of her separation: and whatever she sits on shall be unclean, as the uncleanness of her separation.
27	And whoever touches those things shall be unclean, and shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.
28	But if she be cleansed of her issue, then she shall number to herself seven days, and after that she shall be clean.
29	And on the eighth day she shall take to her two turtles, or two young pigeons, and bring them to the priest, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
30	And the priest shall offer the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering; and the priest shall make an atonement for her before the LORD for the issue of her uncleanness.
31	Thus shall you separate the children of Israel from their uncleanness; that they die not in their uncleanness, when they defile my tabernacle that is among them.
32	This is the law of him that has an issue, and of him whose seed goes from him, and is defiled therewith;
33	And of her that is sick of her flowers, and of him that has an issue, of the man, and of the woman, and of him that lies with her that is unclean.