1	And it was when Jesus finished ordering his twelve disciples, he went away from thence to teach and proclaim in all their cities.
2	And John having heard in prison the works of Christ, having sent two of his disciples,
3	He said to him, Art thou he coming, or should we look for another?
4	And Jesus having answered said to them, Having gone, announce to John what ye hear and see:
5	The blind receive sight, and the lame walk, the leprous are cleansed, and the deaf bear, the dead are roused, and the poor have good news announced.
6	And happy is he who shall not give cause of offence in me.
7	And these going forth, Jesus began to say to the crowds concerning John, What went ye forth into the desert to see? A reed shaken by the wind?
8	But what went ye out to see? A man clad in soft garments? but they having soft things are in king’s houses.
9	But what went ye out to see? A prophet? yes, I say to you, and more eminent than a prophet.
10	For this is he for whom it was Written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, who shall prepare thy way before thee.
11	Verily I say to you, in the begotten of women has there not risen a greater than John the Immerser; but the less in the kingdom of the heavens is greater than he.
12	From the days of John the Immerser till now the kingdom of the heavens is achieved by force, and they committing violence seize it eagerly.
13	For all the prophets, And the law prophesied till John.
14	And if ye will receive, this is Elias he about to come.
15	He having ears to hear, let him hear.
16	To what shall I liken this generation I it is like little boys sitting in market-places, and calling to their companions,
17	And saying, We played the flute to you, and ye moved not; we lamented to you and ye lamented not.
18	For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He has an evil spirit.
19	The Son of man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold a man a glutton, and wine drinker, a friend of publicans and sinful; and wisdom has been justified from her children.
20	Then began he to blame the cities in which were his greatest powers, because they repented not.
21	Woe to thee, Chorazin! woe to thee, Bethsaida! for if in Tyre and Sidon had been the powers being in you, long since had they repented in sackcloth and ashes.
22	But I say to you, To Tyre and Sidon shall it be more supportable in the day of judgment, than to you.
23	And thou, Capernaum, lifted up even to heaven, thou shalt he brought down to hades: for if in the people of Sodom had been the powers being in thee, they had remained till this day.
24	But I say to you, That to the land of Sodom it shall be more supportable in the day of judgment, than to you.
25	In that time Jesus having answered, said, I acknowledge to thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, for thou hast hidden these things from the wise and intelligent, and revealed them to children.
26	Yes, Father: for so was it benevolence before thee.
27	All things were delivered to me by my Father; and none knows the Son, except the Father; nor knows any one the Father, except the Son, and to whom the Son will reveal.
28	Come to me, all ye wearied and loaded, and I will cause you to rest.
29	Lift up my yoke upon you, and learn from me; for I am meek and humble in heart; and ye shall find rest to your souls.
30	For my yoke is useful, and my load is light.