1	In that time Herod the tetrarch heard the report of Jesus,
2	And he said to his servants, This is John the Baptist; be was aroused from the dead; and for this, powers are energetic in him.
3	For Herod, having seized John, bound him, and put him in prison for Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife:
4	For John said to him, It is not lawful for thee to have her:
5	And wishing to kill him, he was afraid of the crowd, because they held John as a prophet.
6	The festivities of Herod’s birthday being celebrated, the daughter of Herodias danced in the midst, and pleased Herod.
7	Wherefore, with an oath, he agreed to give her whatever she should ask.
8	And having been urged on by her mother, Give me, she says, here upon a board, the head of John the Baptist.
9	And the king was grieved: but for his oath, and those reclining together at the table, he ordered to be given.
10	And having sent, he beheaded John in the prison.
11	And his head was brought upon a board, and given to the girl, and she brought to her mother.
12	And his disciples having come near, took away the body, and interred it; and having come, they announced to Jesus.
13	And Jesus having heard, withdrew from thence into a desert place apart: and the crowds, having heard, followed him on foot from the cities.
14	And Jesus having come, saw a great crowd: and he felt compassion for them, and he cured their sick.
15	And being evening, his disciples came to him, saying, It is a desert place, and the time has passed already; loose the crowds, that, having gone into towns, they might purchase food for themselves.
16	But Jesus said to them, They have no need to depart; give ye them to eat.
17	And they say to him, We have not here but five loaves, and two fishes.
18	And he said, Bring them here to me.
19	And having encouraged the crowds to recline upon the grass, and having taken the five loaves, and two fishes, and having looked up to heaven, he praised; and having broken, gave the loaves to the disciples, and the disciples to the crowds.
20	And they all ate, and were satisfied; and they took up the remaining of fragments, twelve baskets full.
21	And they eating were five thousand men, besides women and children.
22	And quickly Jesus constrained his disciples to go into the ship, and to go before him to the other side, till he should loose the crowds.
23	And having loosed the crowds, he went up into a mount apart to pray: and being evening, he was there alone.
24	And the ship was already in the midst of the sea, overcharged by waves: for the wind was contrary.
25	And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went out to them, walking upon the sea.
26	And the disciples seeing him walking upon the sea, were troubled, saying, It is an apparition; and they cried out for fear.
27	And quickly Jesus spake to them, saying, Take courage; I am; be not afraid.
28	And Peter having answered him, said, Lord, if thou art, encourage me to come upon the waters.
29	And he said, Come. And Peter having gone down from the ship, walked upon the waters, to go to Jesus.
30	And seeing the wind strong, he was afraid: and beginning to sink, he cried out, Lord, save me.
31	And quickly Jesus, having stretched out the hand, laid hold of him, and says to him, O thou of little faith, for what didst thou doubt?
32	And having gone into the ship, the wind ceased.
33	And they in the ship, having come, worshipped him, saying, Thou art truly the Son of God.
34	And having passed over, they came to the land of Gennesaret.
35	And the men of the place, having known him, sent into the whole country round about, and brought to him all those having evils:
36	And besought him that they might only touch the hem of his garment: and as many as touched were saved from danger.