1	And after six days Jesus takes Peter, James, and John his brother, and brings them up into a high mountain apart.
2	And he was transformed before them: and his face shone as the sun, and his garments were white as the light.
3	And, behold, Moses and Elias were seen to them, conversing with him.
4	And Peter, having answered, said to Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here: let us make here three tents; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.
5	He yet speaking, behold, a shining cloud overshadowed them: and behold a voice out of the cloud, saying, This is my dearly beloved Son, in whom I was contented; hear ye him.
6	And the disciples, having heard, fell upon their face, and were greatly afraid.
7	And Jesus, having come, touched them, and said, Be raised, and be not afraid.
8	And having lifted up their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus alone.
9	And they, coming down from the mountain, Jesus charged them, saying, Tell the sight to none, even till the Son of man rises from the dead.
10	And his disciples asked him, saying, Why then say the scribes that Elias must first come?
11	And Jesus having answered, said to them, Elias truly comes first and will re-establish all things.
12	And I say to you, That Elias has already come, and they knew him not, but did by him whatever they would. So also the Son of man is about to suffer by them.
13	Then understood the disciples that he told them of John the Baptist.
14	And they having come to the crowd, there came to him a man, supplicating on his knees to him, and saying,
15	Lord, pity my son: for he is a lunatic, and suffers badly: for many times he falls into the fire, and many times into the water.
16	And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not cure him.
17	And Jesus, having answered, said, O faithless and perverted generation, how long shall I be with you how long shall I endure you? bring him here to me.
18	And Jesus censured him; and the demon went forth out of him: and the child was cured from that hour.
19	Then the disciples having come to Jesus apart, said, Why could not we cast it out?
20	And Jesus said to them, For your unbelief: for truly I say to you, If ye have faith as a kernel of mustard, ye shall say to this mount, Go away from thence, and it shall go away; and nothing shall be impossible to you.
21	But this kind goes not forth but by prayer and fasting.
22	And they having returned into Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of man is about to be delivered into the hands of men:
23	And they shall kill him, and the third day he shall be raised. And they were greatly grieved.
24	And they having come to Capernaum, they taking double drachmas came to Peter and said, Does not your teacher pay double drachmas?
25	He says, Yes. And when he came into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, What seems to thee, Simon? from whom do the kings of the earth take taxes or census? from their sons, or from strangers?
26	Peter says to him, From strangers. Jesus said to him, Then are the children free.
27	But that we should not scandalize them, having gone to the sea, cast a fish hook, and lift up the fish coming up first, and having opened its mouth, thou shalt find a gold coin: having taken that, give to them for me and thee.