1	And it was when Jesus finished these words he removed from Galilee, and came from the bounds of Judea beyond Jordan;
2	And many crowds followed him; and he cured them there.
3	And the Pharisees came to him, tempting him, and saying to him, Is it lawful for a man to loose his wife for every cause.
4	And having answered, he said to them, Have ye not read, that he having made from the beginning, made them male and female,
5	And said, For this shall a man leave father and mother, and be joined to his wife: and they two shall be one flesh?
6	So that they are no more two, but one flesh. What therefore God has yoked together, let not man separate.
7	They say to him, Why then did Moses charge to give a writing of divorce, and loose her?
8	He says to them that Moses for your hard heart permitted you to loose your wives: and from the beginning it was not so.
9	And I say to you, That whoever should loose his wife, except for fornication, and marry another, commits adultery; and he having married the one loosed commits adultery.
10	His disciples say to him, If the cause of a man is so with the woman, it is not profitable to marry.
11	And he said to them, All have not room for this word, but to whom it is given.
12	For there are eunuchs, who were born so from the mother’s belly: and there are eunuchs, who were made eunuchs by men: and there are eunuchs, who have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of the heavens. He being able to receive, let him receive.
13	Then young children were brought to him, that he might put hands upon them and pray: and the disciples censured them.
14	But Jesus said, Let go the young children, and hinder them not, to come to me: for of such is the kingdom of the heavens.
15	And having put hands upon them, he went out from thence.
16	And, behold, one having come said to him, Good teacher, what good shall I do, that I might have eternal life?
17	And he said to him, Why sayest thou me good? None is good except one, God; but if thou wouldst come into life, keep the commands.
18	He says to him, Which? And Jesus said, thus: Thou shalt not murder; Thou shalt not commit adultery; Thou shalt not steal; Thou shalt not bear false witness;
19	Honour thy father and mother; and, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.
20	The young man says to him, All these have I watched from my youth; what yet do I want?
21	Jesus said to him, If thou wished to be perfected, retire, sell thy possessions, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me.
22	And the young man having heard the word, departed, being grieved: for he was holding many possessions.
23	And Jesus said to his disciples, Truly I say to you, That with difficulty shall a rich one come into the kingdom of the heavens.
24	And again I say to you, It is of easier labor for a camel to pass through the hole of a needle, than for a rich one to come into the kingdom of God.
25	And his disciples were greatly struck with amazement, saying, Who then can be saved?
26	And Jesus having looked up said to them, With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.
27	Then Peter having answered, said to him, Behold, we have let go all things, and have followed thee; what therefore shall be to us?
28	And Jesus said to them, Verily I say to you, That ye having followed me, in the regeneration when the Son of man should sit upon the throne of his glory, shall be seated ye also upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
29	And every one who lets go houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or fields, for the sake of my name, shall receive a hundredfold, and shall inherit eternal life.
30	And many first shall be last, and the last first.