1	For the kingdom of the heavens is like to a man, master of a house, who went out as soon as morning to hire workmen for his vineyard.
2	And having agreed for a drachma a day, he sent them to his vineyard.
3	And having gone out about the third hour, he saw others standing idle in the market-place,
4	And he says to them, Retire ye also into the vineyard, and whatever should be just I will give you: and they departed.
5	Again, having gone out about the sixth and ninth hour, he did likewise.
6	And about the eleventh hour, having gone out, he found others standing idle, and he says to them, Why stand ye here idle the whole day?
7	They say to him, That none has hired us. He says to them, Retire also to the vineyard; and whatever be just, ye shall receive.
8	And it being evening, the lord of the vineyard says to his steward, Call the workmen, and give back to them the wages, beginning from the last even to the first.
9	And they of the eleventh hour having come, thereupon received a drachma.
10	And the first, having come, thought that they will receive more; and they also received thereupon a drachma.
11	And having received, they murmured against the master of the house,
12	Saying, That these last worked one hour, and thou hast made them equal to us, having borne the burden and heat of the day.
13	And he, having answered, said to one of them, Friend, I injure thee not; didst not thou agree with me for a drachma?
14	Take thine and retire: and I will to give to this last, as also to thee.
15	Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with my things? Or is thine eye evil because I am good.
16	So shall the last be first, and the first last; for many are called, but few chosen.
17	And Jesus, going up to Jerusalem, took the twelve disciples apart in the way, and he said to them,
18	Behold, we go up to Jerusalem; and the Son of man shall be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, and they shall condemn him to death,
19	And they shall deliver him to the nations to mock, and scourge, and crucify: and he shall be raised the third day.
20	Then came to him the mother of the sons of Zebedee, with her sons, worshipping, and asking something of him.
21	And he said to her, What wilt thou? She says to him, Say that these my two sons might sit, the one on thy right hand, and one on thy left, in thy kingdom.
22	And Jesus having answered, said, Ye know not what ye ask: can ye drink the cup which I am about to drink, and be immersed with the immersion which I am immersed? They say to him, We can.
23	And he says to them, Truly my cup shall ye drink, and with the immersion which I am immersed shall ye be immersed; but to sit on my right, and on my left, is not mine to give, but to those it was prepared for by my Father.
24	And the ten having heard, felt pain about the two brethren.
25	But Jesus, having called them, said, Ye know that the rulers rule over their nations, and the great exercise authority over them.
26	But it shall not be so among you; but whoever should wish to be great among you, let him be your attendant;
27	And whoever would be first among you, let him be your servant:
28	As the Son of man came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his soul a ransom for many.
29	And they going out from Jericho, a great crowd followed him.
30	And, behold, two blind sitting by the way, having heard that Jesus passes by, cried out, saying, Pity us, O Lord, son of David.
31	And the crowd censured them that they should be silent: but they cried the more, saying, Pity us, O Lord, son of David.
32	And Jesus having stood, called them, and said, What will ye I shall do to you?
33	They say to him, Lord, that our eyes might be opened.
34	And Jesus, having felt compassion, touched their eyes: and quickly their eyes looked up, and they followed him.