1	And when they drew near to Jerusalem, and came to Bethphage, to the mount of Olives, then sent Jesus two disciples, saying to them,
2	Go ye into the town opposite to us, and quickly shall ye find an ass bound, and a colt with her; having loosed, bring to me.
3	And if any one say to you, Why? ye shall say, That the Lord has need of them; and quickly will he send them.
4	And the whole of this was, that that spoken by the prophet be completed; saying,
5	Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy king comes to thee, meek, and mounted upon an ass, and a colt, son of a beast of burden.
6	And the disciples, having gone and done as Jesus commanded them,
7	Brought the ass, and colt, and put on them their garments, and he sat over them.
8	And a very great crowd strewed their garments in the way; and others cut down young shoots from the trees, and strewed in the way.
9	And the crowds leading before, and following, cried, saying, Osanna to the son of David: he coming in the name of the Lord being praised; Osanna in the highest ones.
10	And he having come to Jerusalem, all the city was shaken, saying, Who is this?
11	And the crowds said, This is Jesus, the prophet, from Nazareth of Galilee.
12	And Jesus came into the temple of God, and cast out all those selling and buying in the temple, and he overturned the money-changers tables, and the seats of those selling doves,
13	And he says to them, It was written, My house shall be called the house of prayer; and ye have made it a den of robbers.
14	And the blind and lame came to him in the temple; and he cured them.
15	And the chief priests and scribes, seeing the wonderful things which he did, and the children crying in the temple, and saying, Osanna to the son of David; they felt pain.
16	And they said to him, Hearest thou what these say? And Jesus says to them, Yes; have ye never read, That out of the mouths of young children and sucklings thou hast adjusted praise?
17	And leaving them, he went without the city, to Bethany; and lodged there.
18	And in the morn, having returned into the city, he hungered.
19	And having seen one fig tree by the way, he came to it, and found nothing on it, except leaves only; and he says to it, Let no more fruit be from thee forever. And instantly the fig tree was dried up.
20	And the disciples, seeing, wondered, saying, How suddenly was the fig tree dried up!
21	And Jesus, having answered, said to them, Truly I say to you, if ye have faith, and be not removed, ye shall do not only that of the fig tree, but also to this mountain, if ye should say, Be thou lifted up, and cast into the sea, it shall be.
22	And all things, whatever ye ask in prayer, believing, shall ye receive.
23	And to him, having come into the temple to him teaching, came the chief priests and elders of the people, saying, By what authority doest thou these? and who gave thee this authority?
24	And Jesus, having answered, said to them, I will also ask you one word, which if ye tell me, I also will tell you by what authority I do these.
25	The baptism of John, whence was it of heaven or of men And they reasoned by themselves, saying, If we say, of heaven; he will say to us, Why, then, believed ye him not?
26	But if we say, of men; we fear the crowd; for all hold John as a prophet.
27	And having answered Jesus, they said, We know not. And he said to them, Neither do I say to you, by what authority I do these.
28	But what seems to you A man had two children; and having come to the first, he said, Child, retire today, work in my vineyard.
29	And he, having answered, said, I will not; but afterward, having felt regret, he departed.
30	And having come to the second, he said likewise. And he, having answered, said, I, Lord: and he departed not.
31	Which of the two did the father’s will? They say to him, The first. Jesus says to them, Truly I say to you, that publicans and harlots go into the kingdom of God before you.
32	For John came to you in the way of justice, and ye believed him not: and the publicans and harlots believed him; and ye, seeing, repented not afterwards, to believe him.
33	Hear another parable: A certain man was master of a house, who planted a vineyard, and put a hedge around it, and digged in it a winepress, and let it out to farmers, and went abroad:
34	And when the time of the fruits drew near, he sent his servants to the farmers, to receive his parts.
35	And the farmers having taken his servants, truly one they stripped, and one they killed, and one they stoned.
36	Again he sent other servants, more than the first, and they did to them likewise.
37	And afterwards he sent to them his son, saying, They will be changed by my son.
38	And the farmers, seeing the son, said among themselves, This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and possess his inheritance.
39	And having taken, they cast out of the vineyard, and killed.
40	When, therefore, the lord of the vineyard should come, what will he do to those farmers?
41	They say to him, He will miserably destroy these wicked, and let out the vineyard to other farmers, who will give back to him the fruits in their seasons.
42	Jesus says to them, Have ye never read in the writings, The stone which the builders disapproved of, this was for the head of the corner? This was from the Lord, and it was wonderful in your eyes.
43	For this I say to you, The kingdom of God shall be taken from you, and shall be given to a nation doing its fruits.
44	And he falling upon this stone shall be crushed: but upon whomsoever it should fall, it shall winnow him.
45	And the chief priests and Pharisees, having heard his parable, knew that he spake of them.
46	And seeking to lay hold on him, they feared the crowd, since they held him as a prophet.