1	And Jesus having gone out, went out of the temple: and his disciples came near to shew him the buildings of the temple.
2	And Jesus said to them, See ye not all these? truly I say to you, Stone upon stone shall not be left here, which shall not be loosened.
3	And sitting upon the mount of Olives, his disciples came to him apart, saying, Say to us when these shall be, and what the sign of thy arrival, and the termination of the time.
4	And Jesus having answered, said to them, See lest any lead you astray.
5	For many shall come upon my name, saying, I am Christ; and deceive many.
6	And ye will be about to hear of wars and rumors of war: see, be not terrified; for all must be, but the end is not yet.
7	For nation shall be raised up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; and there shall be famines, and plagues, and shakings in places.
8	And all these the beginning of anguish.
9	Then shall they deliver you to pressure, and they shall kill you: and ye shall be hated by all nations, for my name.
10	And then shall many be offended, and they shall deliver up one another, and they shall hate one another.
11	And many false prophets shall be raised up, and deceive many.
12	And because anxiety shall increase, the love of many shall be cooled.
13	But he having persevered to the end, this shall be saved.
14	And this good news of the kingdom shall be proclaimed in the whole habitable globe for a witness to all nations: and then shall the end come.
15	Therefore, when ye see the abomination of devastation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place, (let him reading, understand:)
16	Then let them in Judea flee to the mountain;
17	He upon the house-tops, let him not come down to take away anything out of his house:
18	And he in the field, let him not turn back to take up his garments:
19	And woe to those having in the womb, and to those giving suck, in those days!
20	And pray that your flight be not in winter, nor in the sabbath.
21	For then shall be great pressure, such as has not been from the beginning of the world till now, nor should be.
22	And except those days had been shortened, no flesh should be saved: but for the chosen, those days shall be shortened.
23	Then if any say to you, Behold, here Christ, or there; believe ye not.
24	For false Christs, and false prophets, shall be raised up, and give great signs and wonders; so as to deceive, if possible, also the chosen.
25	Behold, I have told you beforehand.
26	If therefore they should say to you, Behold, he is in the desert; go not forth; Behold, in the store-houses, believe ye not.
27	For as the lightning comes forth from the sunrisings, and shines to the descents; so also shall be the arrival of the Son of man.
28	For wherever be the fall, there will the eagles be gathered together.
29	And quickly after the pressure of those days, the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from the heavens, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken;
30	And then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven; and then shall the tribes of the earth lament bitterly, and they shall see the Son of man coming upon the clouds of heaven with power and much glory.
31	And he shall send his messengers, with the great voice of the trumpet, and they shall bring together his chosen from the four winds, from the extremities of the heavens to the extremities.
32	And from the fig tree learn a parable; When already her young shoot should be tender, and the leaves should spring forth, ye know that summer is near:
33	So also ye, when ye should see all these things, know ye that it is near at the doors.
34	Truly I say to you, That this generation should not pass away, till all these things should be.
35	The heaven and the earth shall pass away, but my words should not pass away.
36	And concerning that day and hour, none know, nor the messengers of the heavens, except my Father only.
37	And as the days of Noe, so shall be the arrival of the Son of man.
38	For as they were in the days of the inundation, eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day Noe came into the ark,
39	And knew not till the inundation came, and took them all away; so also shall be the arrival of the Son of man.
40	Then shall be two in the field; one shall be taken, and one is let go;
41	Two grinding in the mill; one shall be taken, and one let go.
42	Watch therefore; for ye know not what hour your Lord comes.
43	But know this, that if the master of the house had known what watch the thief comes, he had watched, and would not have suffered his house to be undermined.
44	Therefore be ye also prepared: for what hour ye think not, the Son of man comes.
45	Who then is the faithful and discerning servant, which his lord set over his attendance, to give them food in due season.
46	Happy that servant which his lord, having come, shall find doing thus.
47	Truly I say to you, That he shall set him over all his possessions.
48	But if that servant say in his heart, My lord delays to come;
49	And he should begin to strike the fellow-servants, and to eat and drink with those intoxicated;
50	The lord of that servant shall come in a day that he expects not, and in an hour which he knows not,
51	And he shall cut him in two equal parts, and he shall set his portion with the hypocrites: and there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.