1	In these days John the Baptist is present, proclaiming in the desert of Judea;
2	And saying, Repent, for the kingdom of the heavens has drawn near.
3	For this is he spoken of by the prophet Esaias, saying, A voice of him crying in the desert, Prepare the way of the Lord; make his paths straight.
4	And this John had his garment from camel’s hair, and a leather girdle about his loins, and his food was locusts and wild honey.
5	Then went out to him Jerusalem, and all Judea, and all round about Jordan;
6	And they were immersed in Jordan by him, acknowledging their sins.
7	And seeing many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his immersion, he said to them, O generation of vipers, who has indicated to you to flee from the wrath about to come?
8	Do ye therefore fruit worthy of repentance.
9	And think not to say in yourselves we have Abraham a father; for I say to you, that God can of these stones raise up children to Abraham.
10	And now also the axe lies at the root of the trees; therefore every one not making good fruit is cut off and cast into fire.
11	I truly immerse you in water to repentance; but he coming after me is stronger than I, whose shoes I am not fit to lift up; he shall immerse in the Holy Spirit, and fire.
12	Whose winnowing fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly cleanse his threshing floor, and gather his wheat into the store; but he will burn down the chaff in inextinguishable fire.
13	Then Jesus approaches from Galilee to Jordan, to John, to be immersed by him.
14	And John hindered him, saying, I have need to be immersed by thee, and dost thou come to me?
15	And Jesus having answered said to him, Permit now; for so it is suitable for us to complete all justice: then he permitted him.
16	And Jesus, having been immersed, went up straight from the water, and, behold, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending as a dove, and coming upon him.
17	And behold a voice from the heavens, saying, This is my dearly beloved Son, in whom I was contented.