1	Then was Jesus led up by the Spirit into the desert to be tried by the devil.
2	And having fasted forty days and forty nights, afterwards he was hungry.
3	And the tempter having come to him, said, If thou art the Son of God, say that these stones should become bread.
4	And he having answered, said, It has been written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word going forth through the mouth of God.
5	Then the devil takes him into the holy city, and sets him upon the small wing of the temple;
6	And says to him, If thou art the Son of God cast thyself down; for it has been written, That to his messengers he will command concerning thee; and in the hands shall they lift thee up, lest that perhaps thou strike thy foot against a stone.
7	Jesus said to him, Again has it been written, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.
8	Again, the devil takes him into a very high mount, and shows him all the kingdoms of the world, and their glory;
9	And he says to him, All these will I give to thee, if, falling down, thou wouldst worship me.
10	Then says Jesus to him, Retire, Satan; for it has been written, The Lord thy God shalt thou worship, and him alone shalt thou serve.
11	Then the devil lets him go, and behold, the messengers came up, and they served him.
12	And Jesus having heard that John was delivered up, went back into Galilee.
13	And having left Nazareth behind, having come, he dwelt in Capernaum, near the sea, in the boundaries of Zabulon and Nephthalim:
14	That it might be completed having been spoken through Esaias the prophet, saying,
15	The land of Zabulon, and the land of Nephthalim, the way of the sea beyond Jordan, Galilee of the nations:
16	The people sitting in darkness saw a great light; and to them sitting in the room and shadow of death, light has sprung up to them.
17	From then Jesus began to proclaim, and to say, Repent: for the kingdom of the heavens has drawn near.
18	And Jesus, walking about by the sea of Galilee, saw two brethren, Simon being called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a sweep-net into the sea; for they were fishermen.
19	And he says to them, Come after me, and I will make you the fishermen of men.
20	And they instantly having let go their nets, followed him.
21	And having proceeded thence, he saw other two brethren, James him of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the ship with Zebedee their father, adjusting their nets; and he called them.
22	And they having instantly let go the ship and their father, followed him.
23	And Jesus went about the whole of Galilee, teaching in their assemblies, and proclaiming the good news of the kingdom, and curing disease, and every weakness in the people.
24	And a report went forth of him into the whole of Syria: and they brought to him all those having injuries, being oppressed by various diseases, and trials, and being under the influence of a demon, and being lunatics, and paralytics, and he cured them.
25	And many crowds followed him from Galilee, and Decapolis, and Jerusalem, and Judea, and beyond Jordan.