1	Judge not, that ye be not judged.
2	For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what measure ye measure, it shall be repaid to you.
3	And why seest thou the mote which is in thy brother’s eye, and the beam in thine eye thou observest not?
4	Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let go I will cast out the mote from thine eye: and behold a beam in thine eye.
5	Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam from thine eye, and thou shalt see clearly to cast out the mote from thy brother’s eye.
6	Ye should not give the holy thing to dogs neither should ye cast your pearls before swine, lest they tread them down with their feet, and having turned, should rend you.
7	Ask, and it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened to you.
8	For everyone asking, receives and he seeking, finds; and to him knocking shall be opened.
9	Or what man is of you, which, if his son ask bread, he will not give him a stone?
10	And if he ask a fish, he will not give him a serpent?
11	If ye, therefore, being evil, know to give good gifts to your children how much more will your Father which is in the heavens give good things to those asking him?
12	Therefore all whatever ye would that men should do to you, so also do ye to them; for this is the law and the prophets.
13	Enter ye in through the strait gate, for broad the gate and spacious the way leading to destruction, and many are they coming in through it.
14	For strait the gate and afflicted the way leading into life, and few are they finding it.
15	And hold from false prophets which come in to you in sheep’s dresses, but within they are rapacious wolves.
16	By their fruits shall ye know them. Far from it, do they gather grapes from thorns, or figs from caltrops.
17	So every good tree makes good fruits; but the rotten tree makes evil fruits.
18	A good tree cannot make evil fruits, nor a rotten tree make good fruits.
19	Every tree not making good fruit is cut off, and cast into fire.
20	Wherefore from their fruits shall ye know them.
21	Not every one saying to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of the heavens; but he doing the will of my Father who is in the heavens.
22	Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have we cast out evil spirits, and in thy name done many powers?
23	And then shall I confess to them that I never knew you. Go away from me, ye working iniquity.
24	Therefore, every one which hears these my words and does them, I will liken him to a discerning man which built his house upon the rock.
25	And the rain descended, and rivers came, and winds blew, and fell upon that house, and it fell not, for it was founded upon the rock.
26	And every one hearing these my words and doing them not, shall be likened to a foolish man, which built his house upon sand.
27	And the rain descended, and rivers came, and winds blew and struck upon that house, and it fell, and great was its fall.
28	And it was when Jesus finished these words, the crowds were struck with amazement at his teaching:
29	For he was teaching them as having power, and not as the scribes.