1	And having come down from the mountain, great crowds followed him.
2	And, behold, a leper, having come, worshipped him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt thou canst cleanse me.
3	And having stretched forth the hand, Jesus touched him, saying, I will; be thou cleansed and instantly his leprosy was cleansed.
4	And Jesus says to him, See thou tell no one; but retire, show thyself to the priest, and bring near the gift which Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.
5	And Jesus having entered into Capernaum, a captain of a hundred came to him, and beseeching him,
6	And saying, Lord, my servant has been laid up in the house a paralytic, being grievously tormented.
7	And Jesus says to him, I, having come, will cure him.
8	And the captain of a hundred having answered said, Lord, I am not fit that thou shouldest enter in under my roof: but only say the word, and my servant shall be healed.
9	For I also am a man under power, having soldiers under me: and I say to this, Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he comes; and to my servant, Do this, and he does.
10	And Jesus having heard, admired, and said to those following; Verily I say to you, not in Israel have I found such faith.
11	And I say to you, That many shall come from the sunrising and the descents, and shall recline with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of the heavens.
12	But the sons of the kingdom shall be cast out into outer darkness; weeping shall be there, and gnashing of teeth.
13	And Jesus said to the captain of a hundred, Retire; as thou hast believed, let it be to thee. And his servant was healed in that hour.
14	And Jesus, having come into Peter’s house, saw his mother-in-law having been laid up, and affected with fever.
15	And he touched her hand, and the fever let her go: and she arose, and served them.
16	And evening being come, they brought him many possessed with evil spirits: and he east out the spirits by the word, and cured all having evils:
17	So that that spoken by Esaias the prophet was completed, saying. He took our weakness, and lifted up diseases.
18	And Jesus seeing many crowds about him, encouraged to go away beyond.
19	And one scribe, coming near, said to him, Teacher, I will follow thee wherever thou goest.
20	And Jesus says to him, The foxes have dens, and the fowls of heaven occupy nests; but the Son of man has not where he might recline the head.
21	And another of his disciples said to him, Lord, permit me first to go and inter my father.
22	But Jesus said to him, Follow me; and let the dead inter the dead.
23	And he having gone into a ship, his disciples followed him.
24	And, behold, a great shaking was in the sea, so that the ship was covered by the waves: and be slept.
25	And his disciples, having come near, awoke him, saying, Lord, save us: we are lost.
26	And he says to them, Why are ye timorous, ye of little faith? Then having risen, he censured the winds and sea; and there was a great calm.
27	And the men admired, saying, of what race is this for the winds and the sea listen to him.
28	And he having come beyond the country of the Gergesenes, two possessed with evil spirits, coming out of the tombs, met him, very rough, so that not any could pass by that way.
29	And, behold, they cried out, saying, What to us and thee, Jesus, Son of God? hast thou come here to torture us before the time.
30	And far off from them was a herd of many swine grazing.
31	And the evil spirits besought him, saying, If thou cast us out, permit us to go away into the herd of swine.
32	And he said to them, Retire. And having gone, they went away into the herd of swine: and, behold, all the herd of swine rushed down the precipice into the sea, and died in the water.
33	And they feeding fled; and having come into the city, they announced all things, and those of the possessed with evil spirits.
34	And, behold, all the city came forth to the meeting to Jesus: and seeing him, they besought that he would go away from their boundaries.