1	And having entered into a ship, he passed over and came into his own city.
2	And, behold, they brought him a paralytic, laid upon a bed; and Jesus seeing their faith, said to the paralytic, Take courage, child thy sins are let go to thee.
3	And behold, certain of the scribes said in themselves, This defames.
4	And Jesus seeing their reflections, said, Why reflect ye within your hearts?
5	For why is it easier to say, Sins are let go to thee; or say, Arise and walk?
6	But that ye might know that the Son of man has power upon earth to let go sins, (then he says to the paralytic), Having risen, take up thy bed and retire to thy house.
7	And having risen, he went away into his house.
8	And the crowds, seeing, admired, and praised God, giving such power to men.
9	And Jesus, passing away from thence, saw a man sitting by the custom-house, being called Matthew, and he says to him, Follow me; and having risen he followed him.
10	And it was he sitting at table in the house, and behold, many tax collectors and sinful, having come, sat at table with Jesus and his disciples.
11	And the Pharisees, seeing, said to his disciples, Wherefore does your teacher eat with tax collectors and the sinful?
12	And Jesus having heard, said to them, They being strong have no need of a physician, but they having evils.
13	And having gone, learn what is this, I wish mercy, and not sacrifice: for I came not to call the just, but the sinful to repentance.
14	Then came to him the disciples of John; saying, Wherefore do we and the Pharisees fast much, and thy disciples fast not?
15	And Jesus said to them, The sons of the nuptial chamber cannot mourn inasmuch as the bridegroom is with them; but the days shall come when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then shall they fast.
16	And no one puts on a cover of uncombed fragment upon an old garment, for its filling takes away from the garment, and the division is Worse.
17	Neither do they cast new wine into old wine-skins: but if otherwise, the wine-skins burst, and the wine is poured out, and the wine-skins are destroyed; but they cast new wine into new wine-skins, and they are both preserved.
18	He speaking these things to them, behold, a ruler, having come, worshipped him, saying; That my daughter has just now died: but having come, put thy hand upon her, and she shall live.
19	And Jesus having risen, followed him: also his disciples.
20	And behold, a woman discharging blood twelve years, having come near behind, touched the hem of his garment:
21	For she said in herself, If I should only touch the hem of his garment, I shall be saved.
22	And Jesus having turned round, and seeing her, said, Take courage, daughter; thy faith has saved thee. And the woman was saved from that hour.
23	And Jesus having come into the ruler’s house, and seeing the flute players and the crowd making an uproar,
24	He says to them, Give way; for the girl is not dead but sleeps; and they mocked him.
25	But when the crowd was driven forth, having entered, he seized her hand, and the little girl was awakened.
26	And this report went forth into that whole land.
27	And Jesus passing from thence, two blind ones followed him, crying out and saying, Commiserate us, O son of David.
28	And having come into the house, the blind came to him: and Jesus says to them, Believe ye that I can do this? They say to him, Yes, Lord.
29	Then touched he their eyes, saying, According to your faith be it to you.
30	And their eyes were opened; and Jesus threatened them, saying, See, let none know.
31	But they, having gone out, divulged it in that, whole land.
32	And they having gone, behold they brought to him a man dumb, possessed with an evil spirit.
33	And the demon being cast out, the dumb, spake, and the crowd admired, saying, It was never so brought to light in Israel.
34	But the Pharisees said, By the chief of demons he casts out demons.
35	And Jesus went about all the cities and towns, teaching in their assemblies, and proclaiming the good news of the kingdom, and curing every disease and every weakness in the people.
36	And having seen the crowds, he felt compassion for them, for they were relaxed and dispersed, as sheep not having a shepherd.
37	Then he says to his disciples, Truly the harvest much, but the laborers few.
38	Implore therefore the Lord of the harvest, so that he might draw forth laborers into his harvest.