1	Now at the same time, king Herod extended his hand, in order to afflict some from the Church.
2	Then he killed James, the brother of John, with the sword.
3	And seeing that it pleased the Jews, he set out next to apprehend Peter also. Now it was the days of Unleavened Bread.
4	So when he had apprehended him, he sent him into prison, handing him over into the custody of four groups of four soldiers, intending to produce him to the people after the Passover.
5	And so Peter was detained in prison. But prayers were being made without ceasing, by the Church, to God on his behalf.
6	And when Herod was ready to produce him, in that same night, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, and was bound with two chains. And there were guards in front of the door, guarding the prison.
7	And behold, an Angel of the Lord stood near, and a light shined forth in the cell. And tapping Peter on the side, he awakened him, saying, “Rise up, quickly.” And the chains fell from his hands.
8	Then the Angel said to him: “Dress yourself, and put on your boots.” And he did so. And he said to him, “Wrap your garment around yourself and follow me.”
9	And going out, he followed him. And he did not know this truth: that this was being done by an Angel. For he thought that he was seeing a vision.
10	And passing by the first and second guards, they came to the iron gate which leads into the city; and it opened for them by itself. And departing, they continued on along a certain side street. And suddenly the Angel withdrew from him.
11	And Peter, returning to himself, said: “Now I know, truly, that the Lord sent his Angel, and that he rescued me from the hand of Herod and from all that the people of the Jews were anticipating.”
12	And as he was considering this, he arrived at the house of Mary, the mother of John, who was surnamed Mark, where many were gathered and were praying.
13	Then, as he knocked at the door of the gate, a girl went out to answer, whose name was Rhoda.
14	And when she recognized the voice of Peter, out of joy, she did not open the gate, but instead, running in, she reported that Peter stood before the gate.
15	But they said to her, “You are crazy.” But she reaffirmed that this was so. Then they were saying, “It is his angel.”
16	But Peter was persevering in knocking. And when they had opened, they saw him and were astonished.
17	But motioning to them with his hand to be silent, he explained how the Lord had led him away from prison. And he said, “Inform James and those brothers.” And going out, he went away to another place.
18	Then, when daylight came, there was no small commotion among the soldiers, as to what had happened concerning Peter.
19	And when Herod had requested him and did not obtain him, having had the guards interrogated, he ordered them led away. And descending from Judea into Caesarea, he lodged there.
20	Now he was angry with those of Tyre and Sidon. But they came to him with one accord, and, having persuaded Blastus, who was over the bedchamber of the king, they petitioned for peace, because their regions were supplied with food by him.
21	Then, on the appointed day, Herod was clothed in kingly apparel, and he sat in the judgment seat, and he gave a speech to them.
22	Then the people were crying out, “The voice of a god, and not of a man!”
23	And immediately, an Angel of the Lord struck him down, because he had not given honor to God. And having been consumed by worms, he expired.
24	But the word of the Lord was increasing and multiplying.
25	Then Barnabas and Saul, having completed the ministry, returned from Jerusalem, bringing with them John, who was surnamed Mark.