1	Now it happened in Iconium that they entered together into the synagogue of the Jews, and they spoke in such a way that a copious multitude of both Jews and Greeks believed.
2	Yet truly, the Jews who were unbelieving had incited and enflamed the souls of the Gentiles against the brothers.
3	And so, they remained for a long time, acting faithfully in the Lord, offering testimony to the Word of his grace, providing signs and wonders done by their hands.
4	Then the multitude of the city was divided. And certainly, some were with the Jews, yet truly others were with the Apostles.
5	Now when an assault had been planned by the Gentiles and the Jews with their leaders, so that they might treat them with contempt and stone them,
6	they, realizing this, fled together to Lystra and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia, and to the entire surrounding region.
7	And they were evangelizing in that place.
8	And a certain man was sitting at Lystra, disabled in his feet, lame from his mother’s womb, who had never walked.
9	This man heard Paul speaking. And Paul, gazing at him intently, and perceiving that he had faith, so that he might be healed,
10	said with a loud voice, “Stand upright upon your feet!” And he leaped up and walked around.
11	But when the crowds had seen what Paul had done, they lifted up their voice in the Lycaonian language, saying, “The gods, having taken the likenesses of men, have descended to us!”
12	And they called Barnabas, ‘Jupiter,’ yet truly they called Paul, ‘Mercury,’ because he was the lead speaker.
13	Also, the priest of Jupiter, who was outside the city, in front of the gate, bringing in oxen and garlands, was willing to offer sacrifice with the people.
14	And as soon as the Apostles, Barnabas and Paul, had heard this, tearing their tunics, they leapt into the crowd, crying out
15	and saying: “Men, why would you do this? We also are mortals, men like yourselves, preaching to you to be converted, from these vain things, to the living God, who made heaven and earth and the sea and all that is in them.
16	In previous generations, he permitted all nations to walk in their own ways.
17	But certainly, he did not leave himself without testimony, doing good from heaven, giving rains and fruitful seasons, filling their hearts with food and gladness.”
18	And by saying these things, they were barely able to restrain the crowds from immolating to them.
19	Now certain Jews from Antioch and Iconium arrived there. And having persuaded the crowd, they stoned Paul and dragged him outside of the city, thinking him to be dead.
20	But as the disciples were standing around him, he got up and entered the city. And the next day, he set out with Barnabas for Derbe.
21	And when they had evangelized that city, and had taught many, they returned again to Lystra and to Iconium and to Antioch,
22	strengthening the souls of the disciples, and exhorting them that they should remain always in the faith, and that it is necessary for us to enter into the kingdom of God through many tribulations.
23	And when they had established priests for them in each church, and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord, in whom they believed.
24	And traveling by way of Pisidia, they arrived in Pamphylia.
25	And having spoken the word of the Lord in Perga, they went down into Attalia.
26	And from there, they sailed to Antioch, where they had been commended to the grace of God for the work which they had now accomplished.
27	And when they had arrived and had gathered together the church, they related what great things God had done with them, and how he had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles.
28	And they remained for no small amount of time with the disciples.