1	And after we had escaped, we then realized that the island was called Malta. Yet truly, the natives offered us no small amount of humane treatment.
2	For they refreshed us all by kindling a fire, because rain was imminent and because of the cold.
3	But when Paul had gathered together a bundle of twigs, and had placed them on the fire, a viper, which had been drawn to the heat, fastened itself to his hand.
4	And truly, when the natives saw the beast hanging from his hand, they were saying to one another: “Certainly, this man must be a murderer, for though he escaped from the sea, vengeance will not permit him to live.”
5	But shaking off the creature into the fire, he indeed suffered no ill effects.
6	But they were supposing that he would soon swell up, and then would suddenly fall down and die. But having waited a long time, and seeing no ill effects in him, they changed their minds and were saying that he was a god.
7	Now among these places were estates owned by the ruler of the island, named Publius. And he, taking us in, showed us kind hospitality for three days.
8	Then it happened that the father of Publius lay ill with a fever and with dysentery. Paul entered to him, and when he had prayed and had laid his hands on him, he saved him.
9	When this had been done, all who had diseases on the island approached and were cured.
10	And then they also presented us with many honors. And when we were ready to set sail, they gave us whatever we needed.
11	And so, after three months, we sailed in a ship from Alexandria, whose name was ‘the Castors,’ and which had wintered at the island.
12	And when we had arrived at Syracuse, we were delayed there for three days.
13	From there, sailing close to the shore, we arrived at Rhegium. And after one day, with the south wind blowing, we arrived on the second day at Puteoli.
14	There, after locating the brothers, we were asked to remain with them for seven days. And then we went on to Rome.
15	And there, when the brothers had heard of us, they went to meet us as far as the Forum of Appius and the Three Taverns. And when Paul had seen them, giving thanks to God, he took courage.
16	And when we had arrived at Rome, Paul was given permission to stay by himself, with a soldier to guard him.
17	And after the third day, he called together the leaders of the Jews. And when they had convened, he said to them: “Noble brothers, I have done nothing against the people, nor against the customs of the fathers, yet I was delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans.
18	And after they held a hearing about me, they would have released me, because there was no case for death against me.
19	But with the Jews speaking against me, I was constrained to appeal to Caesar, though it was not as if I had any kind of accusation against my own nation.
20	And so, because of this, I requested to see you and to speak to you. For it is because of the hope of Israel that I am encircled with this chain.”
21	But they said to him: “We have not received letters about you from Judea, nor have any of the other new arrivals among the brothers reported or spoken anything evil against you.
22	But we are asking to hear your opinions from you, for concerning this sect, we know that it is being spoken against everywhere.”
23	And when they had appointed a day for him, very many persons went to him at his guest quarters. And he discoursed, testifying to the kingdom of God, and persuading them about Jesus, using the law of Moses and the Prophets, from morning until evening.
24	And some believed the things that he was saying, yet others did not believe.
25	And when they could not agree among themselves, they departed, while Paul was speaking this one word: “How well did the Holy Spirit speak to our fathers through the prophet Isaiah,
26	saying: ‘Go to this people and say to them: Hearing, you shall hear and not understand, and seeing, you shall see and not perceive.
27	For the heart of this people has grown dull, and they have listened with reluctant ears, and they have closed their eyes tightly, lest perhaps they might see with the eyes, and hear with the ears, and understand with the heart, and so be converted, and I would heal them.’
28	Therefore, let it be known to you, that this salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles, and they shall listen to it.”
29	And when he had said these things, the Jews went away from him, though they still had many questions among themselves.
30	Then he remained for two whole years in his own rented lodgings. And he received all who went in to him,
31	preaching the kingdom of God and teaching the things which are from the Lord Jesus Christ, with all faithfulness, without prohibition.