1	But while they were speaking to the people, the priests and the magistrate of the temple and the Sadducees overwhelmed them,
2	being grieved that they were teaching the people and announcing in Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
3	And they laid hands on them, and they placed them under guard until the next day. For it was now evening.
4	But many of those who had heard the word believed. And the number of men became five thousand.
5	And it happened on the next day that their leaders and elders and scribes gathered together in Jerusalem,
6	including Annas, the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John and Alexander, and as many as were of the priestly family.
7	And stationing them in the middle, they questioned them: “By what power, or in whose name, have you done this?”
8	Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them: “Leaders of the people and elders, listen.
9	If we today are judged by a good deed done to an infirm man, by which he has been made whole,
10	let it be known to all of you and to all of the people of Israel, that in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ the Nazarene, whom you crucified, whom God has raised from the dead, by him, this man stands before you, healthy.
11	He is the stone, which was rejected by you, the builders, which has become the head of the corner.
12	And there is no salvation in any other. For there is no other name under heaven given to men, by which it is necessary for us to be saved.”
13	Then, seeing the constancy of Peter and John, having verified that they were men without letters or learning, they wondered. And they recognized that they had been with Jesus.
14	Also, seeing the man who had been cured standing with them, they were unable to say anything to contradict them.
15	But they ordered them to withdraw outside, away from the council, and they conferred among themselves,
16	saying: “What shall we do to these men? For certainly a public sign has been done through them, before all the inhabitants of Jerusalem. It is manifest, and we cannot deny it.
17	But lest it spread further among the people, let us threaten them not to speak anymore in this name to any man.”
18	And calling them in, they warned them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus.
19	Yet truly, Peter and John said in response to them: “Judge whether it is just in the sight of God to listen to you, rather than to God.
20	For we are unable to refrain from speaking the things that we have seen and heard.”
21	But they, threatening them, sent them away, having not found a way that they might punish them because of the people. For all were glorifying the things that had been done in these events.
22	For the man in whom this sign of a cure had been accomplished was more than forty years old.
23	Then, having been released, they went to their own, and they reported in full what the leaders of the priests and the elders had said to them.
24	And when they had heard it, with one accord, they lifted up their voice to God, and they said: “Lord, you are the One who made heaven and earth, the sea and all that is in them,
25	who, by the Holy Spirit, through the mouth of our father David, your servant, said: ‘Why have the Gentiles been seething, and why have the people been pondering nonsense?
26	The kings of the earth have stood up, and the leaders have joined together as one, against the Lord and against his Christ.’
27	For truly Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, joined together in this city against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed
28	to do what your hand and your counsel had decreed would be done.
29	And now, O Lord, look upon their threats, and grant to your servants that they may speak your word with all confidence,
30	by extending your hand in cures and signs and miracles, to be done through the name of your holy Son, Jesus.”
31	And when they had prayed, the place in which they were gathered was moved. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit. And they were speaking the Word of God with confidence.
32	Then the multitude of believers were of one heart and one soul. Neither did anyone say that any of the things that he possessed were his own, but all things were common to them.
33	And with great power, the Apostles were rendering testimony to the Resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord. And great grace was in them all.
34	And neither was anyone among them in need. For as many as were owners of fields or houses, selling these, were bringing the proceeds of the things that they were selling,
35	and were placing it before the feet of the Apostles. Then it was divided to each one, just as he had need.
36	Now Joseph, who the Apostles surnamed Barnabas (which is translated as ‘son of consolation’), who was a Levite of Cyprian descent,
37	since he had land, he sold it, and he brought the proceeds and placed these at the feet of the Apostles.