1	But a certain man named Ananias, with his wife Sapphira, sold a field,
2	and he was deceitful about the price of the field, with his wife’s consent. And bringing only part of it, he placed it at the feet of the Apostles.
3	But Peter said: “Ananias, why has Satan tempted your heart, so that you would lie to the Holy Spirit and be deceitful about the price of the land?
4	Did it not belong to you while you retained it? And having sold it, was it not in your power? Why have you set this thing in your heart? You have not lied to men, but to God!”
5	Then Ananias, upon hearing these words, fell down and expired. And a great fear overwhelmed all who heard of it.
6	And the young men rose up and removed him; and carrying him out, they buried him.
7	Then about the space of three hours passed, and his wife entered, not knowing what had happened.
8	And Peter said to her, “Tell me, woman, if you sold the field for this amount?” And she said, “Yes, for that amount.”
9	And Peter said to her: “Why have you agreed together to test the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they shall carry you out!”
10	Immediately, she fell down before his feet and expired. Then the young men entered and found her dead. And they carried her out and buried her next to her husband.
11	And a great fear came over the entire Church and over all who heard these things.
12	And through the hands of the Apostles many signs and wonders were accomplished among the people. And they all met with one accord at Solomon’s portico.
13	And among the others, no one dared to join himself to them. But the people magnified them.
14	Now the multitude of men and women who believed in the Lord was ever increasing,
15	so much so that they laid the infirm in the streets, placing them on beds and stretchers, so that, as Peter arrived, at least his shadow might fall upon any one of them, and they would be freed from their infirmities.
16	But a multitude also hurried to Jerusalem from the neighboring cities, carrying the sick and those troubled by unclean spirits, who were all healed.
17	Then the high priest and all those who were with him, that is, the heretical sect of the Sadducees, rose up and were filled with jealousy.
18	And they laid hands on the Apostles, and they placed them in the common prison.
19	But in the night, an Angel of the Lord opened the doors of the prison and led them out, saying,
20	“Go and stand in the temple, speaking to the people all these words of life.”
21	And when they had heard this, they entered the temple at first light, and they were teaching. Then the high priest, and those who were with him, approached, and they called together the council and all the elders of the sons of Israel. And they sent to the prison to have them brought.
22	But when the attendants had arrived, and, upon opening the prison, had not found them, they returned and reported to them,
23	saying: “We found the prison certainly locked up with all diligence, and the guards standing before the door. But upon opening it, we found no one within.”
24	Then, when the magistrate of the temple and the chief priests heard these words, they were uncertain about them, as to what should happen.
25	But someone arrived and reported to them, “Behold, the men whom you placed in prison are in the temple, standing and teaching the people.”
26	Then the magistrate, with the attendants, went and brought them without force. For they were afraid of the people, lest they be stoned.
27	And when they had brought them, they stood them before the council. And the high priest questioned them,
28	and said: “We strongly order you not to teach in this name. For behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and you wish to bring the blood of this man upon us.”
29	But Peter and the Apostles responded by saying: “It is necessary to obey God, more so than men.
30	The God of our fathers has raised up Jesus, whom you put to death by hanging him on a tree.
31	It is he whom God has exalted at his right hand as Ruler and Savior, so as to offer repentance and the remission of sins to Israel.
32	And we are witnesses of these things, with the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to all who are obedient to him.”
33	When they had heard these things, they were deeply wounded, and they were planning to put them to death.
34	But someone in the council, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law honored by all the people, rose up and ordered the men to be put outside briefly.
35	And he said to them: “Men of Israel, you should be careful in your intentions about these men.
36	For before these days, Theudas stepped forward, asserting himself to be someone, and a number of men, about four hundred, joined with him. But he was killed, and all who believed in him were scattered, and they were reduced to nothing.
37	After this one, Judas the Galilean stepped forward, in the days of the enrollment, and he turned the people toward himself. But he also perished, and all of them, as many as had joined with him, were dispersed.
38	And now therefore, I say to you, withdraw from these men and leave them alone. For if this counsel or work is of men, it will be broken.
39	Yet truly, if it is of God, you will not be able to break it, and perhaps you might be found to have fought against God.” And they agreed with him.
40	And calling in the Apostles, having beaten them, they warned them not to speak at all in the name of Jesus. And they dismissed them.
41	And indeed, they went forth from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were considered worthy to suffer insult on behalf of the name of Jesus.
42	And every day, in the temple and among the houses, they did not cease to teach and to evangelize Christ Jesus.