1	In those days, as the number of disciples was increasing, there occurred a murmuring of the Greeks against the Hebrews, because their widows were treated with disdain in the daily ministration.
2	And so the twelve, calling together the multitude of the disciples, said: “It is not fair for us to leave behind the Word of God to serve at tables also.
3	Therefore, brothers, search among yourselves for seven men of good testimony, filled with the Holy Spirit and with wisdom, whom we may appoint over this work.
4	Yet truly, we will be continually in prayer and in the ministry of the Word.”
5	And the plan pleased the entire multitude. And they chose Stephen, a man filled with faith and with the Holy Spirit, and Philip and Prochorus and Nicanor and Timon and Parmenas and Nicolas, a new arrival from Antioch.
6	These they set before the sight of the Apostles, and while praying, they imposed hands on them.
7	And the Word of the Lord was increasing, and the number of disciples in Jerusalem was multiplied exceedingly. And even a large group of the priests were obedient to the faith.
8	Then Stephen, filled with grace and fortitude, wrought great signs and miracles among the people.
9	But certain ones, from the synagogue of the so-called Libertines, and of the Cyrenians, and of the Alexandrians, and of those who were from Cilicia and Asia rose up and were disputing with Stephen.
10	But they were not able to resist the wisdom and the Spirit with which he was speaking.
11	Then they suborned men who were to claim that they had heard him speaking words of blasphemy against Moses and against God.
12	And thus did they stir up the people and the elders and the scribes. And hurrying together, they seized him and brought him to the council.
13	And they set up false witnesses, who said: “This man does not cease to speak words against the holy place and the law.
14	For we have heard him saying that this Jesus the Nazarene will destroy this place and will change the traditions, which Moses handed down to us.”
15	And all those who were sitting in the council, gazing at him, saw his face, as if it had become the face of an Angel.