1	But I determined this with myself, that I would not come again to you in heaviness.
2	For if I make you sorry, who is he then that makes me glad, but the same which is made sorry by me?
3	And I wrote this same to you, lest, when I came, I should have sorrow from them of whom I ought to rejoice; having confidence in you all, that my joy is the joy of you all.
4	For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote to you with many tears; not that you should be grieved, but that you might know the love which I have more abundantly to you.
5	But if any have caused grief, he has not grieved me, but in part: that I may not overcharge you all.
6	Sufficient to such a man is this punishment, which was inflicted of many.
7	So that contrariwise you ought rather to forgive him, and comfort him, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up with overmuch sorrow.
8	Why I beseech you that you would confirm your love toward him.
9	For to this end also did I write, that I might know the proof of you, whether you be obedient in all things.
10	To whom you forgive any thing, I forgive also: for if I forgave any thing, to whom I forgave it, for your sakes forgave I it in the person of Christ;
11	Lest Satan should get an advantage of us: for we are not ignorant of his devices.
12	Furthermore, when I came to Troas to preach Christ’s gospel, and a door was opened to me of the Lord,
13	I had no rest in my spirit, because I found not Titus my brother: but taking my leave of them, I went from there into Macedonia.
14	Now thanks be to God, which always causes us to triumph in Christ, and makes manifest the aroma of his knowledge by us in every place.
15	For we are to God a sweet smell of Christ, in them that are saved, and in them that perish:
16	To the one we are the smell of death to death; and to the other the smell of life to life. And who is sufficient for these things?
17	For we are not as many, which corrupt the word of God: but as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God speak we in Christ.