1	Let brotherly love remain.
2	Forget not hospitality: for by this some knew not having treated angels with friendship.
3	Remember them in bonds as bound together with them; them treated ill, as the same being in the body.
4	Marriage honoured in all, and the bed unpolluted: but fornicators and adulterers God will judge.
5	The disposition exempt from avarice; being contented with present circumstances: for he has said, I will not send thee back, nor forsake thee.
6	So that being confident, we say, The Lord aiding me, and I will not fear what man will do to me.
7	Remember them guiding you, who spake to you the word of God: of whom, observing narrowly the issue of the mode of life, imitate the faith:
8	Jesus Christ, yesterday, and to day the same, and for ever.
9	With various and strange teachings be not carried about. For good the heart be rendered firm by grace; not by food, in which they having walked about were not profited.
10	We have an altar, of which they serving the tent have no power to eat.
11	For of whom the blood of the living ones is brought for sin into the holies by the chief priest, the bodies of these are burned without the camp.
12	Wherefore also Jesus, that he might consecrate the people by his own blood, suffered without the camp.
13	Therefore we should come to him without the camp, bearing his reproach.
14	For here have we no abiding city, but we seek that about to be.
15	By him therefore we should always bring up the sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of the lips assenting to his name.
16	And the doing good and mutual participation forget not; for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
17	Believe them guiding you, and yield: (for they watch vigilantly for your souls, as going to return the word.) that with joy they might do this, and not lamenting: for this unprofitable for you.
18	Pray for us: for we have trusted that we have a good consciousness, in all things wishing to be well occupied.
19	And I beseech the more abundantly to do this, that I might the more speedily be restored to you.
20	And the God of peace, having brought up from the dead, the great Shepherd of the sheep, in the blood of the eternal covenant, our Lord Jesus Christ,
21	Put you in proper order in every good work for doing his will, doing in you the thing pleasing before him, by Jesus Christ; to whom glory for the time of times. Amen.
22	And I beseech you, brethren, hold up the word of entreaty: for I also sent to you in a few words.
23	Ye know the brother Timothy having been set at liberty; with whom, if he come more speedily, I shall see you.
24	Greet all them guiding you, and all the holy.
25	They from Italy greet you. Grace with you all. Amen.