1	For this ought we to hold above measure to the things heard, lest we slip away.
2	For if the word spoken by angels was firm, and every transgression and bad instruction received the just payment of reward;
3	How shall we escape, having neglected such great salvation; which at the beginning taken to be spoken by the Lord, by them having heard was made firm to us;
4	God confirming the testimony, together with signs and wonders, and various powers, and partitions of the Holy Spirit, according to his will.
5	For not to the angels has he subjected the habitable globe about to be, of which we speak.
6	And somewhere a certain one testified, saying, What is man, that thou rememberest him? or the son of man, that thou reviewest him?
7	Thou didst render him some little while less than angels; thou crownedst him with glory and honour, and didst place him over the work of thine hands:
8	All things didst thou place under his feet. For in placing all things under him, thou didst leave nothing not subjected to him. And now we see not yet all things placed under him.
9	But we see Jesus, made some little while less than angels by the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honour; so that by the grace of God he should taste of death for all.
10	For it became him, for whom all things, and by whom all things, in bringing many sons to glory, to perfect the chief of their salvation by sufferings.
11	For be consecrating and they being consecrated all of one: for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
12	Saying, I will announce thy name to my brethren, in the midst of the church will I praise thee.
13	And again, I will be confident in him. And again, Behold I and the young children which God gave me.
14	Since therefore the young children participated in flesh and blood, he also likewise participated with them; that by death he might leave unemployed him having the strength of death, that is, the devil;
15	And deliver them, as many as by fear of death were always to live bound by slavery.
16	For certainly he lays not hold of angels; but of the seed of Abraham he lays hold.
17	Wherefore in all things it was necessary to be made like to the brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful chief priest in things towards God, in order to propitiate for the sin of the people.
18	For in that he himself has suffered, having been tempted, he is able to help the tempted.