1	Let us therefore fear, lest a solemn promise being left to come into his rest, any of you should seem to have failed.
2	For we also were announced of the good news, as well as they: but the word of the report profited them not, not being mixed with faith to them having heard.
3	For we having believed come into the rest, as he said, As I sware in my wrath, if they shall come into my rest: although the works having been from the foundation of the world.
4	For he said somewhere of the seventh thus, And God ceased in the seventh day from all his works.
5	And in this again, If they shall enter into my rest.
6	Since therefore it remains for some to come into it, and they before announced of the good news came not in through unbelief:
7	Again he limits a certain day, saying in David, To day, after such time; as it is said, To day if ye would hear his voice, harden not your hearts.
8	For if Jesus had caused them to rest, he would not have spoken of another day after these things.
9	Therefore a celebration of a sabbath remains to the people of God.
10	For he having come into his rest, he also has ceased from his works, as God from his own.
11	Therefore we should be earnest to come into that rest, lest any should fall in the same pattern of unbelief.
12	For the word of God living, and effective, and more piercing than any two-mouthed sword, and penetrating even to the division both of soul and spirit, both the joints and marrows, and a critic of the reflections and thoughts of the heart.
13	And there is no creation invisible before him: and all things naked and exposed, neck and face to view, to the eyes of him with whom to us is the word.
14	Having therefore a great chief priest, passed to the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, we should hold firmly the assent.
15	For we have not a chief priest unable to suffer with our weaknesses; but tried in all things as a resemblance, without sin.
16	We should therefore go with freedom of speech to the throne of grace, that we receive mercy, and find grace for timely assistance.