1	I will stand upon my watch, and be set me upon the fortress, and I will watch to see what he will speak in me, and what I shall turn back upon my reproof.
2	And Jehovah will answer me and say, Write the vision, and grave upon the tablets, so that he shall run reading in it.
3	For yet the vision for the appointment, and it shall breathe to the end, and it shall not lie: if it shall delay, wait for it; for coming, it will come; and it shall not delay.
4	Behold, his soul being inflated in him, was not straight: and the just one shall live by his faithfulness.
5	And also if a proud man transgressing by wine, and he will not rest; who enlarged his soul as hades, and he as death, and he will not be satisfied, and he will gather to him all nations, and he will collect to him all peoples.
6	Shall not these all of them lift up a parable against him, and an enigma of an oracle against him, and it shall be said, Wo! to him multiplying that not to him, how long making heavy upon him goods taken in pledge?
7	Shall they not rise up suddenly, biting thee? and they disquieting thee shall rise up, and thou wert for plunder to them.
8	For thou didst spoil many nations, all the rest of the peoples shall spoil thee; from the bloods of man, and the violence of the land, of the city, and all dwelling in it.
9	Wo! to him plundering an evil plunder to his house, to set his nest on high, to deliver from the hand of evil.
10	Thou wilt counsel shame to thy house, cutting off many peoples, and causing thy soul to sin.
11	For the stone from the wall shall cry out, and the cross-beam from the wood shall answer it.
12	Wo! to him building a city with bloods, and preparing a city by iniquity.
13	Behold, is it not from Jehovah of armies, and the peoples shall labor in a sufficiency of fire, and the peoples shall be wearied in a sufficiency of emptiness?
14	For the earth shall be filled to know the glory of Jehovah as the waters shall cover over the sea?
15	Wo! to him giving his neighbor drink, pouring out thy leathern bottle, and also to be drunken so as to look upon their nakedness.
16	Thou wert satisfied with dishonor rather than honor: drink thou also and be uncircumcised: the cup of the right hand of Jehovah shall turn upon thee, and ignominy upon thy glory.
17	For the violence of Lebanon shall cover thee, and the destruction of beasts shall terrify them from the bloods of man, and the violence of the earth, of the city, and all dwelling in it.
18	What profited the carved image that he forming it carved it? the molten image and he teaching falsehood, that the former of his forming trusted upon it to make nothings being dumb?
19	Wo! to him saying to the wood, Awake; and to the dumb stone, Arise, it shall teach. Being overlaid with gold and silver, and not any spirit in its midst.
20	And Jehovah in his holy temple: be silent all the earth before his face.