1	And I will not ye be ignorant, brethren, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea;
2	And were all immersed into Moses in the cloud, and in the sea;
3	And they all ate the same spiritual food.
4	And all drank the same spiritual drink: for they drank of the spiritual Rock following; and the Rock was Christ.
5	But God was not contented with the most of them: for they were overthrown in the desert.
6	And these things were our types, that we be not eagerly desirous of evil things, as they also eagerly desired.
7	Neither be ye idolaters, as some of them; as has been written, The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play.
8	Neither should we commit fornication, as some of them committed fornication, and there fell in one day twenty-three thousand.
9	Neither should we tempt Christ, as also some of them tempted, and were destroyed by serpents.
10	Neither do ye murmur, as also some of them murmured, and were destroyed by the destroyer.
11	And all those happened types to them; and it was written for our reminding, to whom the ends of the times have arrived.
12	Therefore let him seeming to stand see that he fall not.
13	No temptation except human has taken you and God faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above what ye are able; but with the temptation will he also make an escape, that ye may be able to bear.
14	Wherefore, my beloved, do ye flee from idolatry.
15	As to the wise speak I; judge ye what I say.
16	The cup of praise which we praise, is it not the mutual participation of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the mutual participation of the body of Christ?
17	That, one bread, one body, we are many: for we all partake of one bread.
18	See ye Israel according to the flesh: are not they eating the sacrifices mutual participators of the altar?
19	What do I say therefore? that an idol is any thing? or that what is sacrificed to an idol is any thing?
20	But, that what things they sacrifice the nations sacrifice to demons, and not to God: and I will not ye be partakers of demons.
21	Ye cannot drink the cup of the Lord, and the cup of demons: ye cannot partake of the table of the Lord, and the table of demons.
22	Do we emulate the Lord? are we stronger than he?
23	All things are lawful to me, but all are not profitable: all things are lawful to me, but all build not the house.
24	Let none seek his own, but each another’s.
25	Every thing being sold in the market, eat, ye, interrogating nothing through consciousness:
26	For of the Lord the earth, and its fulness.
27	And if any one of the unbelieving call you, and ye wish to go; every thing set before you, eat, interrogating nothing through consciousness.
28	And if any one say to you, This is sacrificed to an idol, eat not, for him making it known, and consciousness: for of the Lord the earth, and its fulness:
29	And consciousness, I say, not thine, but another’s: for that why is my freedom judged by another’s consciousness.
30	And if I partake by grace, why am I defamed for what I give thanks?
31	Whether therefore ye eat, whether ye drink, or what ye do, do ye all things to the glory of God.
32	And be ye not molesters to the Jews, and the Greeks, and to the church of God:
33	As I also please in all things to all, not seeking my advantage, but that of many, that they might be saved.