1	And concerning spiritual things, brethren, I wish you not to be ignorant.
2	Ye know that ye were the nations, to dumb idols, as ye were led, being carried away.
3	Wherefore I make known to you, that none speaking in the Spirit of God calls Jesus anathema: and none can say Lord Jesus, but in the Holy Spirit.
4	And there are distinctions of favors, and the same Spirit.
5	And there are distinctions of services, and the same Lord.
6	And there are distinctions of performances, and it is the same God performing all things in all.
7	And to each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for profit.
8	For truly to one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom; and to another the word of knowledge by the same Spirit;
9	And to another faith in the same Spirit; and to another graces of healings in the same Spirit;
10	And to another performances of powers; and to another discriminations of spirits; and to another kinds of tongues; and to another interpretation of tongues:
11	And all these works one and the same Spirit, dividing to each his own things as be will.
12	For as the body is one, and has many members, and all the members of the one body, being many, is one body: so also is Christ.
13	For also in one Spirit were we all immersed into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether servants or free; and we have all been given to drink into one Spirit.
14	For also the body is not one member, but many.
15	If the foot say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body; by this is it not of the body.
16	And if the ear say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body; by this is it not of the body.
17	If the whole body an eye, where the hearing If the whole hearing, where the smelling?
18	And now has God set the members each one of them in the body, as he would.
19	And if all were one member, where the body.
20	And now truly many members, and one body.
21	The eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of thee: or again the head to the feet, I have no need of you.
22	But much rather the members of the body, seeming to be weak, are necessary:
23	And what we think to be less honourable of the body, upon these we put more abundant honour; and our unseemly parts have more abundant decorum.
24	And our becoming parts have no need: but God blended the body together, to the wanting having given more abundant honour:
25	That no division be in the body; but the members should care the same for one another.
26	And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer together; or one member is honoured, all the members rejoice together.
27	And ye are the body of Christ, and members by parts.
28	And whom truly God set in the church, first the sent, second the prophets, third teachers, then powers, then graces of healings, helps, directions, kinds of tongues.
29	Not all sent: not all prophets: not all teachers: not all powers:
30	All have not the favors of healing: not all speaking with tongues: not all interpret accurately.
31	And be emulous of the better favors: and yet I shew you a way according to eminence.