1	Pursue love, and be emulous of spiritual things, and rather that ye might prophesy.
2	For he speaking in a tongue speaks not to men, but to God: (for none hears; and in the spirit he speaks mysteries.)
3	And he prophesying speaks to men for building the house, and entreaty, and encouragement.
4	And he speaking in a tongue builds himself; and he prophesying builds the church.
5	And I will ye all to speak with tongues, and rather that ye prophesy; for greater he prophesying, than he speaking with tongues, unless he interpret accurately, that the church receive building up.
6	And now, brethren, if I come to you speaking with tongues, what shall I profit you, except I speak to you either in revelation, or in knowledge, or in prophecy, or in teaching?
7	As inanimate things giving a voice, whether pipe or harp, if it give not a distinction to sounds, how shall the piping or harping be known?
8	For also if the trumpet give an uncertain voice, who shall prepare himself for war?
9	So also ye, except by the tongue ye give an evident word, how shall the speaking be known? for ye shall be speaking into the air.
10	If perchance, such kind of voices be in the world, and none of them speechless.
11	If therefore I know not the power of the voice, I shall be to him speaking a foreigner, and he speaking a foreigner to me.
12	So also ye, since ye are zealous of spirits, for the building up of the church seek that ye may abound.
13	Wherefore he speaking in a tongue, let, him pray that he might interpret.
14	For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, and my mind is unfruitful.
15	What therefore is it? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray also with the mind: I will play on the harp in the spirit, and I will play also on the harp in the mind.
16	When if thou praise in the spirit, how shall he filling the place of the private individual say Amen at thy thanksgiving) since he knows not what thou sayest.
17	For thou truly givest thanks well, but the other is not built up.
18	I thank my God, speaking in tongues more than you all:
19	But in the church, I will to speak five words by my mind, that I might also sound in the ears of others, than ten thousand words in a tongue.
20	Brethren, be not children in reflection: but in wickedness act like children, and in reflection be ye perfected.
21	It has been written in the law, That in other tongues and in other lips will I speak to this people; and not so will they hear me, says the Lord.
22	So that tongues are for a sign, not to the believing, but to the unbelieving: and the gift of prophecy, not to the unbelieving, but to the believing.
23	If therefore the whole church come together upon the same, and all speak with tongues, and the private individual, or unbelieving, come in, will they not say that ye are enraged?
24	And If all prophesy, and any unbelieving, or ignorant private individual come in, he is refuted by all, he is examined by all:
25	And so the hidden things of his heart are made manifest; and so having fallen upon the face, he will worship God, proclaiming that God is truly with you.
26	Therefore, what is it brethren when ye come together, every one of you has a Psalms, has teaching, has a tongue, has a revelation, has an interpretatior. Let all things be for the building of the house.
27	Whether any speak in a tongue, by two, or the most by three, and in part; and let one interpret.
28	And if there be no interpreter, let him be silent in the church; and let him speak to himself, and to God.
29	And let the prophets speak two or three, and let others decide.
30	And if to another sitting by it be revealed, let the first be silent.
31	For ye are all able to prophesy one by one, that all might learn, and all might be encouraged.
32	And the spirits of the prophets are subjected to the prophets.
33	For God is not of unsteadiness, but of peace, as in all the churches of the holy ones.
34	Let your women be silent in the churches: for it has not been committed to them to speak; but to be subjected, as also says the law.
35	And if they will learn anything, let them ask their own husbands in the house; for it is shameful for women to speak in the church.
36	Or came out the word of God from you or did it arrive to you only?
37	If any think to be a prophet, or spiritual, let him observe what I write to you, that they are the commands of the Lord.
38	And if any is ignorant, let him be ignorant.
39	Therefore, brethren, be zealous to prophesy, and hinder not to speak in tongues.
40	Let all things be becomingly and according to order.