1	And I make known to you, brethren, the good news which I announced to you, which also ye received, and in which ye stood;
2	By which also ye are saved, to which word I announced to you if ye hold, unless ye believed to no purpose.
3	For I delivered to you among the first, what I also received, that Christ died for our sins, according to the writings;
4	And that he was buried, and that he was raised the third day, according to the writings.
5	And that he was seen by Cephas, then by the twelve:
6	Then was he seen by above five hundred brethren once for all; of whom the most remain till now, and some also are laid to rest.
7	Then was he seen by James; then by all the sent.
8	And last of all exactly as an abortive, was he also seen by me.
9	For I am the least of the sent, who am not fit to be called sent, for I drove out the church of God.
10	And by the grace of God I am what I am: and his grace which in me was not vain; but I was more abundantly wearied than they all: and not I, but the grace of God which with me.
11	Whether therefore I or they, so we proclaim, and so ye believed.
12	And if Christ is proclaimed that he arose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no rising up of the dead?
13	And if there is no rising up of the dead, neither has Christ risen:
14	And if Christ has not risen, then our proclaiming vain, and also your faith vain.
15	And we are also found false witnesses of God; for we testified for God that he raised up Christ: whom he raised not, if therefore the dead are not raised.
16	For if the dead are not raised, neither was Christ raised up:
17	And if Christ was not raised up, your faith is vain; yet are ye in your sins.
18	Then they also having died in Christ perished.
19	If in this life only we have been hoping in Christ, we are more to be compassionated than all men.
20	And now Was Christ raised from the dead, he was the first fruits of those having died.
21	For since by man death, also by man the rising up of the dead.
22	For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive.
23	And each in his own order: the first fruit Christ; then they of Christ in his arrival.
24	Then the end, when he should deliver up the kingdom to God, and the Father; when he should leave unemployed every beginning and every authority and power.
25	For he must reign, till he put all enemies under his feet.
26	The last enemy, death, is left unemployed.
27	For he subjected all things under his feet. And when he said that all things have been subjected, it is manifest that without him having subjected all things to him.
28	And when all things be subjected to him, then also shall the Son himself be subjected to him having made all things subject to him, that God might be all things in all.
29	For what shall they do being immersed for the dead, if in fine the dead rise not? and why are they immersed for the dead?
30	And why are we in peril every hour?
31	In the day I die by: your boasting which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord.
32	If according to man I fought with wild beasts at Ephesus, what the profit to me, if the dead rise not? let us eat and drink; for to morrow we die.
33	Be not deceived: evil intercourses corrupt good habits.
34	Recover your senses rightly, and in not; for some have a want of knowledge of God: I speak to your confusion.
35	But some one will say, How are the dead raised up? and with what body do they come?
36	Froth, what thou sowest is not made alive, except it die:
37	And what thou sowest, thou sowest not the body going to be, but the naked kernel, if perhaps of wheat, or some of the rest:
38	And God gives it a body as he would, and to each of the seed its own body.
39	Not all flesh the same flesh: but one truly flesh of men, and another of cattle, and another of fishes, and another of flying things.
40	And celestial bodies, and terrestrial bodies: but truly one the glory of the celestial, and another that of the terrestrial.
41	One glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars: for star differs from star in glory.
42	So also the rising up of the dead. It is sown in corruption; it is raised in incorruption:
43	It is sown in dishonour; it is raised in glory: it is sown in weakness; it is raised in power:
44	It is sown an animated body; it is raised a spiritual body. There is an animated body, and there is a spiritual body.
45	So also has been written, The first man Adam was born into a living soul; and the last Adam into a spirit making alive.
46	But the first not spiritual, but animated; then the spiritual.
47	The first man of earth, made of earth: the second man the Lord from heaven.
48	As the made of earth, such also the made of earth: and as the celestial, such also the celestial.
49	And as we have borne the image of the made of earth, we shall also bear the image of the celestial.
50	And this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God; neither does corruption inherit incorruption.
51	Behold, I speak to you a mystery; We truly shall not all be laid asleep, but we shall all be changed,
52	In an atom, in the twinkling of the eye, in the last trumpet: for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed.
53	For this corrupted must put on incorruption, and this mortal put on immortality.
54	And when this corrupted shall put on incorruption, and this mortal shall put on immortality, then shall be the word written, Death was swallowed down in victory.
55	Where thine, death, the sting? where thine, hades, the victory.
56	And the sting of death sin; and the power of sin the law.
57	And grace to God, giving us the victory by our Lord Jesus Christ.
58	Wherefore, my beloved brethren, be stable, unmoved, abounding in the work of the Lord always, knowing that our fatigue is not in vain in the Lord.