1	And concerning the collection for the holy ones, as I appointed to the churches of Galatia, so also do ye.
2	According to one day of the sabbaths let each of you put by himself, treasuring up that which he is prospered in, that when I come there be no collections.
3	And when I be present, whom ye approve by letters, these will I send to carry your grace to Jerusalem.
4	And if it be suitable for me also to go, they shall go with me.
5	And I will come to you, when I pass through Macedonia: for I do pass through Macedonia.
6	And perhaps with you I shall abide, or also pass the winter, that ye might send me forward wherever I go.
7	For I will not see you now in coming forward; but I hope to remain some time with you, if the Lord permit.
8	And I will remain in Ephesus even till Pentecost.
9	For a door has stood open to me, great and effective, and many opposed.
10	And if Timotheus come, see ye that he be with you fearlessly: for he works the work of the Lord, as I also.
11	Therefore no one should despise him: and send ye him forward in peace, that he might come to me: for I expect him with the brethren.
12	And concerning Apollos, the brother, I besought him much that he would come to you with the brethren: and the will was not altogether that he should come now; and he will come when he should have leisure.
13	Watch ye, stand in the faith, be manly, be strengthened.
14	Let all things be in love.
15	And I beseech you brethren, (ye know the house of Stephanas, that it is the first fruits of Achaia, and they arranged themselves for service to the holy ones,)
16	That also ye be subjected to such, and to every one cooperating, and to the wearied.
17	And I rejoice at the arrival of Stephanas and Fortunatus and: that they have filled up your necessity.
18	For they refreshed my spirit and yours: therefore observe ye such.
19	The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla, with the church at their house, greet you.
20	All the brethren greet you. Greet ye one another with a holy kiss.
21	The greeting of Paul by my hand.
22	If any love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be Anathema Maranatha.
23	The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ with you:
24	My love with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.