1	And I, brethren, was not able to speak to you as spiritual, but as carnal, as babes in Christ.
2	I have given you milk to drink, and not food; for ye were not able, but neither now are ye yet able.
3	For yet are ye carnal: for wherefore envy in you, and strife, and divisions, are ye not carnal, and walk according to man?
4	For when a certain one should say, I truly am of Paul; and another, I of Apollos; are ye not carnal?
5	Who then is Paul, and who Apollos, but servants by whom ye believed, and to each as the Lord gave?
6	I have planted, Apollos watered; but God increased.
7	So that neither he planting is anything, neither he watering; but God increasing.
8	And he planting and he watering are one: and each shall receive his own reward according to his own labor.
9	For we are workers together with God: the agriculture of God, ye are the building of God.
10	According to the grace of God given to me, as a wise chief-architect, I have laid the foundation, and another builds upon. And let each see how he builds upon.
11	For none is able to lay another foundation above that laid, which is Jesus the Christ.
12	And if any one build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, grass, stalks;
13	The work of each shall be manifested: for the day shall manifest, for in fire it is revealed; and the work of each, what sort it is, the fire shall prove.
14	If the work of any shall remain which he built upon, he shall receive a reward.
15	If the work of any one shall be burned, he shall be caused damage: and he shall be saved; and so as by fire.
16	Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and the spirit of God dwells in you?
17	If any one destroy the temple of God, him will God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which ye are.
18	Let none completely deceive himself. If any think to be wise in this life, let him be foolish, that he may he wise.
19	For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it has been written, He seizing the wise in their deceptions.
20	And again, The Lord knows the reasonings of the wise, that they are vain.
21	Therefore let none boast in men. For all things are yours;
22	Whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or about to be; all are yours;
23	And ye of Christ; and Christ of God.