1	So let a man reckon us, as servants of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God.
2	And besides it is sought in stewards, that any one be found faithful.
3	And to me it is the least that I be judged by you, or by man’s day: but neither do I judge myself.
4	For I know nothing by myself; but in this I have not been justified: and he examining me is the Lord.
5	Therefore judge ye nothing before the time, until the Lord come, who also, will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and make manifest the counsels of hearts: and then shall praise be to each from God.
6	And these things, brethren, I transformed to myself and to Apollos for you; that ye might learn in us not to think above what has been written, lest ye be puffed up one above one against the other.
7	For who distinguishes thee? and what hast thou which thou didst not receive? and if thou also didst receive, why dost thou boast, as not having received?
8	Already were ye satisfied, already were ye rich, without us ye reigned; and I would ye also reigned, that we also might reign together with you.
9	For I think that God has exhibited us the last sent, as exposed to death; for we were a theatre to the world, and to messengers, and to men.
10	We foolish for Christ, and ye wise in Christ; we weak, and ye strong; ye honourable, and we dishonoured.
11	Until this present hour we also hunger, and thirst, and we are naked, and are cuffed, and are unsteady.
12	And we are wearied, working with our own hands: being reviled, we praise; being driven out, we hold up.
13	Being defamed, we entreat: as the filth of the world were we become, the offscouring of all until now.
14	Not shaming you, write I these, but as my beloved children I admonish you.
15	For if ye have ten thousand preceptors in Christ, but not many fathers: for in Christ Jesus by the good news I begat you.
16	I beseech you therefore, be ye imitators of me.
17	Therefore sent I Timotheus to you, who is my beloved child, and faithful in the Lord, who will remind you of all my ways in Christ, as I teach everywhere in all the churches.
18	And as my not coming to you, some were puffed up.
19	And I will come to you swiftly, if the Lord will, and I shall know not the word of those puffed up, but the power.
20	For the kingdom of God not in word, but in power.
21	What will ye? should I come to you with a rod, or in love, and in the spirit of meekness?