1	When I would heal Israel, Then is the iniquity of Ephraim uncovered, And the wickedness of Samaria, For they commit falsehood; And the thief entereth in, And the troop of robbers maketh a raid without.
2	And let them not say to their heart—I remember all their wickedness; Now their own doings have beset them about, They are before My face.
3	They make the king glad with their wickedness, And the princes with their lies.
4	They are all adulterers, As an oven heated by the baker, Who ceaseth to stir From the kneading of the dough until it be leavened.
5	On the day of our king The princes make him sick with the heat of wine, He stretcheth out his hand with scorners.
6	For they have made ready their heart like an oven, while they lie in wait; Their baker sleepeth all the night, In the morning it burneth as a flaming fire.
7	They are all hot as an oven, And devour their judges; All their kings are fallen, There is none among them that calleth unto Me.
8	Ephraim, he mixeth himself with the peoples; Ephraim is become a cake not turned.
9	Strangers have devoured his strength, And he knoweth it not; Yea, gray hairs are here and there upon him, And he knoweth it not.
10	And the pride of Israel testifieth to his face; But they have not returned unto the LORD their God, Nor sought Him, for all this.
11	And Ephraim is become like a silly dove, without understanding; They call unto Egypt, they go to Assyria.
12	Even as they go, I will spread My net upon them; I will bring them down as the fowls of the heaven; I will chastise them, as their congregation hath been made to hear.
13	Woe unto them! for they have strayed from Me; Destruction unto them! for they have transgressed against Me; Shall I then redeem them, Seeing they have spoken lies against Me?
14	And they have not cried unto Me with their heart, Though they wail upon their beds; They assemble themselves for corn and wine, they rebel against Me.
15	Though I have trained and strengthened their arms, Yet do they devise evil against Me.
16	They return, but not upwards; They are become like a deceitful bow; Their princes shall fall by the sword for the rage of their tongue; This shall be their derision in the land of Egypt.