1	Rejoice not, O Israel, unto exultation, like the peoples, For thou hast gone astray from thy God, Thou hast loved a harlot’s hire upon every corn-floor.
2	The threshing-floor and the wine-press shall not feed them, And the new wine shall fail her.
3	They shall not dwell in the LORD’S land; But Ephraim shall return to Egypt, And they shall eat unclean food in Assyria.
4	They shall not pour out wine-offerings to the LORD, Neither shall they be pleasing unto Him; Their sacrifices shall be unto them as the bread of mourners, All that eat thereof shall be polluted; For their bread shall be for their appetite, It shall not come into the house of the LORD.
5	What will ye do in the day of the appointed season, And in the day of the feast of the LORD?
6	For, lo, they are gone away from destruction, Yet Egypt shall gather them up, Memphis shall bury them; Their precious treasures of silver, nettles shall possess them, Thorns shall be in their tents.
7	The days of visitation are come, The days of recompense are come, Israel shall know it. The prophet is a fool, the man of the spirit is mad! For the multitude of thine iniquity, the enmity is great.
8	Ephraim is a watchman with my God; As for the prophet, a fowler’s snare is in all his ways, And enmity in the house of his God.
9	They have deeply corrupted themselves, As in the days of Gibeah; He will remember their iniquity, He will punish their sins.
10	I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness, I saw your fathers as the first-ripe in the fig-tree at her first season; But so soon as they came to Baal-peor, They separated themselves unto the shameful thing, And became detestable like that which they loved.
11	As for Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird; There shall be no birth, and none with child, and no conception.
12	Yea, though they bring up their children, Yet will I bereave them, that there be not a man left; Yea, woe also to them when I depart from them!
13	Ephraim, like as I have seen Tyre, is planted in a pleasant place; But Ephraim shall bring forth his children to the slayer.
14	Give them, O LORD, whatsoever Thou wilt give; Give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts.
15	All their wickedness is in Gilgal, For there I hated them; Because of the wickedness of their doings I will drive them out of My house; I will love them no more, All their princes are rebellious.
16	Ephraim is smitten, Their root is dried up, They shall bear no fruit; Yea, though they bring forth, Yet will I slay the beloved fruit of their womb.
17	My God will cast them away, Because they did not hearken unto Him; And they shall be wanderers among the nations.