1	Thus said Jehovah to me, Go buy for thee a girdle of linen, and put it upon thy loins, and thou shalt not cause it to come into water.
2	And I shall buy the girdle according to the word of Jehovah, and I shall put upon my loins.
3	And the word of Jehovah will be to me the second time, saying,
4	Take the girdle that thou boughtest, which is upon thy loins, and arising, go to Euphrates and hide it there in the cleft of the rock.
5	And I shall go and hide it by Euphrates as Jehovah commanded me.
6	And it will be from the end of many days, and Jehovah will say to me, Rising, go to Euphrates, and take from thence the girdle which I commanded thee to hide it there.
7	And I shall go to Euphrates, and dig, and take the girdle from the place which I hid it there: and behold, the girdle was corrupted, it will not profit for anything.
8	And the word of Jehovah will be to me, saying,
9	Thus said Jehovah, According to this I will corrupt the pride of Judah and the great pride of Jerusalem.
10	This evil people, refusing to hear my words, going in the stubbornness of their heart, and they will go after other gods to serve them and to worship to them, and it shall be as this girdle which shall not profit for anything.
11	For as the girdle will adhere to the loins of a man, so did I cause to adhere to me all the house of Israel and all the house of Judah, says Jehovah: to be to me for a people, and for a name, and for a praise, and for glory: and they heard not.
12	And say to them this word: Thus said Jehovah God of Israel, Every flask shall be filled with wine: and they said to thee, Knowing, shall it not be known that every flask shall be filled with wine?
13	And say to them, Thus said Jehovah, Behold me filling all inhabiting this land, and all the kings sitting to David upon his throne, and the priests and the prophets, and all inhabiting Jerusalem, with drunkenness.
14	And I dashed them in pieces, a man against his brother, and the fathers and the sons together, says Jehovah. I will not pity, and I will not spare, and I will not compassionate from destroying them.
15	Hear ye, and give ear; ye shall not be proud: for Jehovah spake.
16	Ye shall give glory to Jehovah your God, before he shall darken, and before your feet shall strike upon the mountains of darkness, and ye waited for light, and he set it for the shadow of death, he will place for gloom.
17	And if ye will not hear it, my soul shall weep in hiding places from the face of pride, and mine eye weeping shall weep and bring down tears, because the flock of Jehovah was taken captive.
18	Say to the king and to the mistress, Humble yourselves, sit down: for the crown of your glory was brought down from your heads.
19	The cities of the south were shut up and none opened: Judah was carried away captive, it was all carried away captive, the whole of them.
20	Lift up your eyes and see them coming from the north: where the flock given to thee, the sheep of thy glory?
21	What wilt thou say when he shall review upon thee? and thou didst teach them the chiefs for head over thee: shall not pains lay hold of thee as a woman bringing forth?
22	And if thou shalt say in thy heart, Wherefore did these things befall me? for the multitude of thine iniquities thy skirts were uncovered, thy heel treated with violence.
23	Will the Cushite change his skin and the panther his variegated spots? Ye shall also be able to do good, being taught to do evil.
24	And I will scatter them as the straw passing away by the wind of the desert.
25	This thy lot and the portion of thy measure from me, says Jehovah; because thou didst forget me and thou wilt trust in falsehood.
26	And also I uncovered thy skirts upon thy face and thy dishonor was seen.
27	Thine adulteries and thy neighings, the purpose of thy harlotry upon the hills, in the field, I saw thine abominations. Wo to thee, O Jerusalem thou wilt not be cleansed after me; how long yet?