1	The word which was to Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying,
2	Thus said Jehovah God of Israel, saying, Write for thee all the words which I spake to thee upon the writing.
3	For behold, the days coming, says Jehovah, and I turned back the captivity of my people Israel and Judah, said Jehovah: and I turned them back to the land which I gave to their fathers, and they shall inherit it.
4	And these the words which Jehovah spake to Israel and to Judah.
5	For thus said Jehovah; We heard the voice of fear and of terror, and not of peace.
6	Ask ye now, and see if a male brought forth? wherefore did I see every man his hands upon his loins as she bringing forth, and all faces were turned to paleness?
7	Alas! for that day is great from none being like it: and this the time of straits to Jacob and he shall be saved from it.
8	And it was in that day, says Jehovah of armies, I will break his yoke from off thy neck, and I will tear away thy bonds, and strangers shall no more serve upon him.
9	And they served Jehovah their God, and David their king whom I will raise up to them.
10	And thou my servant Jacob shall not fear, says Jehovah, and thou Israel shalt not be dismayed: for behold me saving thee from far off, and thy seed from the land of their captivity; and Jacob turned back and rested, and was quiet, and none making afraid.
11	For I am with thee, says Jehovah, to serve thee: for I will make a completion to all nations where I scattered thee there, but with thee I will not make a completion: and I corrected thee for judgment, and acquitting, I will not let thee go unpunished.
12	For thus said Jehovah, Thy breaking is incurable, and thy blow sickly.
13	None judging thy judgment for binding up: no healing will come up to thee.
14	All loving thee forgat thee; they will not seek thee; for I struck thee the blow of an enemy, the correction of the cruel one, for the multitude of thine iniquity; thy sins were strong.
15	Why wilt thou cry for thy breaking? thy pain is incurable for the multitude of thine iniquity: thy sins were strong, I did these things to thee.
16	For this, all consuming thee shall be consumed; and all thine adversaries, all of them shall go into captivity; and they spoiling thee, were for spoiling, and all plundering thee I will give to plunder.
17	For I will bring up healing to thee, and I will heal thee of thy blows, says Jehovah: for they called to thee an outcast: This is Zion, none seeking for her.
18	Thus said Jehovah, Behold me turning back the captivity of Jacob’s tents, and I will compassionate his habitations; and the city was built upon her hill, and the palace sat upon its judgment.
19	And thanksgiving shall go forth from them, and the voice of those playing, and I multiplied them, and they shall not be few; and I honored them, and they shall not be small.
20	And their sons were as of old, and their testimony shall be prepared before me, and I reviewed upon all pressing them,
21	And his mighty one was from himself, and his ruler shall go forth from his midst; and I caused him to draw near, and he came near to me: for who this pledging his heart to approach to me? says Jehovah.
22	And ye were to me for a people, and I will be to you for God.
23	Behold, the storm of Jehovah went forth with wrath, a cutting storm: it shall be hurled upon the head of the wicked.
24	The burning of the anger of Jehovah shall not turn, back till his doing, and till his setting up the thoughts of his heart: in the last of the days ye shall have understanding in it.