1	To the sons of Ammon, thus said Jehovah: Is there no sons to Israel? none inheriting to him? Wherefore did their king inherit Gad, and his people dwelt in his cities?
2	For this, behold, the days coming, says Jehovah, and I caused to be heard the alarm of war to Rabbah of the sons of Ammon; and it was for a heap of desolation, and her daughters shall be burned with fire; and Israel shall inherit those inheriting him, says Jehovah.
3	Wail, O Heshbon, for Ai was laid waste: cry, ye daughters of Rabbah, gird yourselves with sackcloth; lament, and run to and fro in the walled places; for their king shall go into captivity, his priests and his chiefs together.
4	Wherefore wilt thou boast in the valleys, thy valley flowing away, O daughter turning away? trusting in her treasures, Who shall come to me?
5	Behold me bringing fear upon thee, says the Lord Jehovah of armies, from all round about thee; and ye were thrust away every man to his face, and none gathering to him wandering.
6	And after this I will turn back the captivity of the sons of Ammon, says Jehovah.
7	To Edom, thus said Jehovah of armies, Is wisdom no more in Teman? did counsel perish from the discerning? was their wisdom poured out?
8	Flee ye, turn back, make deep to dwell, ye dwelling in Dedan; for I brought the calamity of Esau upon him, the time of his reviewing.
9	If the vintages came to thee will they not leave gleanings? if thieves by night, they destroyed their sufficiency.
10	For I made Esau naked, I uncovered his secret places, he shall not be able to hide: his seed was laid waste, and his brethren and his neighbors, and he is not.
11	Leave thine orphans, I will preserve alive, and thy widows shall trust upon me.
12	For thus said Jehovah: Behold, whose judgment was not to drink the cup, drinking, they will drink; and art thou he being acquitted, shalt thou be unpunished? thou shalt not be unpunished, for drinking, thou shalt drink.
13	For by myself did I swear, says Jehovah, that Bozrah shall be for a desolation, for a reproach, and for a waste, and for a curse; and all her cities shall be for wastes forever.
14	I heard a report from Jehovah, and a messenger sent to the nations: Gather ye together, and come against her, and rise up for war.
15	For behold, I gave thee small among the nations, despised among men.
16	Thy terror deceived thee, the pride of thy heart, thou dwelling in the asylums of the rock, holding the height of the hill: if thou shalt make thy nest high as the eagle, from thence will I bring thee down, says Jehovah.
17	And Edom was for a desolation: all passing over her shall be astonished, and shall hiss at all her blows.
18	As the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah and her neighbors, said Jehovah, a man shall not dwell there, and the son of man shall not sojourn in her.
19	Behold, as the lion he shall come up from the excellency of Jordan against the habitation of strength: for I will wink, I will cause him to run from her: and who the chosen I shall appoint to her? for who like me? and who shall testify for me? and who this shepherd which shall stand before me?
20	For this, hear ye the counsel of Jehovah which he counseled against Edom: and his purposes which he purposed against the inhabitants of Teman: If not the least of the flock will drag them out: if he shall not make their habitation destitute upon them.
21	From the voice of their falling the earth trembled, at the cry its voice was heard in the sea of sedge.
22	Behold, as the eagle he shall come up and fly and spread his wings over Bozrah, and the heart of the strong of Edom was in that day as the heart of a woman being distressed.
23	To Damascus: Hamath was ashamed, and Arpad: for they heard the evil report: they melted; fear upon the sea; it will not be able to rest.
24	Damascus was relaxed, she turned back to flee, and terror laid hold of her, and pain and sorrows seized her, as she bringing forth.
25	How was the city of praise not left, the city of my joy!
26	For this her young men shall fall in her street, and all the men of war shall be destroyed in that day, says Jehovah of armies.
27	And I will kindle a fire in the walls of Damascus, and it consumed the palaces of the son of Hadad.
28	To Kedar, and to the kingdoms of Hazor, which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babel struck, thus said Jehovah: Arise ye, go up to Kedar, and lay waste the sons of the east.
29	Their tents and their flocks they shall take away: their curtains, and all their vessels, and their camels, shall they lift up for themselves; and they called to them, Fear from round about.
30	Flee, move yourselves greatly, make deep to dwell, ye inhabitants of Hazor, says Jehovah; for Nebuchadnezzar king of Babel counseled counsel against you, and purposed a purpose against you.
31	Arise, go ye up to the nation at rest, dwelling with confidence, says Jehovah; no gates and no bars to it; they shall dwell alone.
32	And their camels were for plunder, and the multitude of their cattle for a spoil: and I scattered them to every wind cut off to the corner; and from all its regions beyond I will bring their calamity, says Jehovah.
33	And Hazor was for a dwelling of jackals, a desolation even to forever: a man shall not dwell there, and the son of man shall not sojourn in it.
34	The word of Jehovah which was to Jeremiah the prophet against Elam in the beginning of the kingdom of Zedekiah king of Judah, saying,
35	Thus said Jehovah of armies, Behold me breaking the bow of Elam the beginning of their strength.
36	And I brought upon Elam the four winds from the four ends of the heavens, and I scattered them to all these winds; and there shall not be a nation where the outcasts of Elam shall not come there.
37	And I confounded Elam before their enemies, and before them seeking their soul: and I brought evil upon them, the burning of mine anger, says Jehovah; and I sent after them the sword even till I finished them.
38	And I set my throne in Elam, and I destroyed from thence the king and the chiefs, says Jehovah.
39	And it was in the last days I will turn back the captivity of Elam, says Jehovah.