1	A man as in the land of Uz, Job his name; and that man was blameless and upright, and fearing God, and departing from evil.
2	And seven sons and three daughters will be born to him.
3	And his possession will be seven thousand sheep, and three thousand camels, and five hundred pair of oxen, and five hundred she asses, and service exceedingly much; and that man shall be great above all the sons of the east.
4	And his sons went and made a drinking in the house, a man his day; and they sent and called for their three sisters to eat and drink with them.
5	And it will be that the days of drinking went round, and Job will send and consecrate them, and he rose early in the morning and brought up burnt-offerings for the number of them all: for Job said, Perhaps my sons sinned, and blessed God in their hearts. Thus did Job all the days.
6	And the day will be and the sons of God will come to stand before God, and also the adversary will come in the midst of them.
7	And Jehovah will say to the adversary, From whence wilt thou come? And the adversary will answer Jehovah, and say, From running to and fro in the earth, and from walking about in it.
8	And Jehovah will say to the adversary, Didst thou set thy heart to my servant Job? for none like him in the earth; a man blameless and upright, fearing God and departing from evil.
9	And the adversary will answer Jehovah and say, Did Job fear God gratuitously?
10	Didst thou, not hedge about him and about his house, and about all that is to him from round about? Thou didst bless the work of his hands, and his possession spread abroad in the earth.
11	But send forth now thy band and tough upon all which is to him, if he will not bless thee upon thy face.
12	And Jehovah will say to the adversary, Behold, all that is to him in thy hand: only upon him thou shalt not send forth thy hand. And the adversary will go forth from the face of Jehovah.
13	And the day will be and his sons and daughters will be eating and drinking wine in the house of their brother, the first-born:
14	And a messenger came to Job; and he will say, The oxen were ploughing, and the he asses were feeding upon their hands.
15	And Sheba will fall and take them; they struck the young men by the month of the sword; and only shall escape, I alone, to announce to thee.
16	This one yet speaking, and this came, and he will say, The fire of God fell from the heavens, and it will burn upon the sheep and upon the young men, and it will devour them; and I shall escape, only I alone, to announce to thee.
17	This one yet speaking, and this came, and he will say, The Chaldeans set three heads, and they invaded upon the camels, and they will take them, and they struck the young men with the mouth of the sword; and I shall escape, only I alone, to announce to thee.
18	This yet speaking, and this came, and he will say, Thy sons and thy daughters Were eating and drinking wine in the house of their brother, the first-born:
19	And behold, a great wind came from beyond the desert, and it will touch upon the four corners of the house, and fall upon the young men, and they will die; and I shall escape, I only, to announce to thee.
20	And Job will rise and rend his covering, and shave his head, and fall to the earth and worship.
21	And he will say, Naked I came forth from my mother’s womb, and naked shall I turn back there: Jehovah gave, and Jehovah took; the name of Jehovah shall be blessed.
22	In all this Job sinned not, and gave not folly to God.