1	My soul was weary in my life; I shall leave upon me my complaint; I shall speak in the bitterness of my soul.
2	Saying to God, Thou wilt not condemn me; make known to me for what thou wilt contend with me.
3	Is it good to thee that thou wilt oppress, that thou wilt despise the labor of thy hinds, and thou didst shine upon the counsels of the unjust?
4	Were eyes of flesh to thee? or wilt thou see as man saw?
5	Are thy days as man’s days? or thy years as the days of man?
6	That thou wilt seek for mine iniquity, and wilt search out for my sins?
7	Upon thy knowledge that I will not do evil; and none delivering from thy hand.
8	Thy hands formed me, and they will work me together round about; and thou wilt swallow me down.
9	Remember now, thou didst make me as day; and thou wilt turn me back to dust.
10	Wilt thou not weigh me out as milk, and coagulate me as cheese?
11	Thou wilt clothe me with skin and flesh, and thou wilt hedge me with bones and sinews.
12	Thou didst with me life and mercy, and thy reviewing watched my spirit.
13	And these thou didst hide in thy heart: I knew that this is with thee.
14	If I sinned; and thou didst watch me, and thou wilt not acquit me from mine iniquity.
15	If I did evil, wo to me; and was I just, I shall not lift up my head, being filled with dishonor: and see thou mine affliction;
16	And shall it be lifted up? Thou wilt hunt me as the lion, and thou wilt turn back, thou wilt show thyself wonderful upon me.
17	Thou wilt renew thy testimonies before me, and thou wilt increase thy wrath upon me; changes and war with me.
18	And wherefore didst thou bring Me forth from the belly? I shall expire, and eye shall not see me.
19	I shall be as I was not; I shall be brought from the womb to the grave.
20	Is it not my days few? He will cease; he will turn from me, and I shall be cheerful a little,
21	Before I shall go and turn back to the land of darkness and the shadow of death;
22	A land of darkness, as thick darkness; of the shadow of death, and not orders, and the brightness, as thick darkness.