1	And Job will answer and say,
2	Verily that ye are the people, and shall wisdom die with you?
3	Also to me a heart like you; I fall not more than you: and with whom not like these?
4	I shall be he laughing at his neighbor, calling to God, and he will answer him: the just blameless one being laughed at.
5	To misfortune is contempt to the thoughts of him at ease, being prepared for the waverings of the foot.
6	The tents to those oppressing will be secure, and confidence to those provoking God to anger: whom God will bring into his hand.
7	But ask now the beasts and they shall teach thee; and the birds of the heavens, and they shall announce to thee:
8	Or speak to the earth and it shall teach thee; and the fishes of the sea shall recount to thee.
9	Who knew not in all these that the hand of God did this?
10	Which in his hand the soul of all living, and the spirit of all the flesh of man.
11	Shall not the ear try words? and the palate shall taste food to it?
12	With old men is wisdom, and length of days, understanding.
13	With him wisdom and strength, to him counsel and understanding.
14	Behold, he will pull down and it shall not be built up: he will shut up against man and it shall not be opened.
15	Behold, he will hold back upon the waters, and they will dry up: and he will send them forth and they will overturn the earth.
16	With him strength and purpose: to him the one led astray and him leading astray.
17	Leading away counselors stripped off and he will make foolish the judges.
18	He loosed the bonds of kings, and he will gird upon their loins a girdle.
19	Leading away priests stripped off, and he will overthrow the mighty.
20	Removing the lip to the faithful, and he will take discernment of old men.
21	Proving contempt upon nobles, and he slackened the girdle of the strong.
22	Revealing deep things from darkness, and he will bring to light the shadow of death.
23	Making great to the nations, and he will destroy them: he spread out to the nations, and he will guide them.
24	Taking away the heart of the heads of the people of the earth, and he will cause them to wander in a waste, not a way.
25	They will feel darkness and not light, and he will cause them to wander as one intoxicated.