1	For there is a going forth for silver, and a place for gold they will purify it.
2	Iron shall be taken from the dust, and stone will pour out brass.
3	He set an end to darkness, and he searched out for all completeness: the stone of darkness and the shadow of death.
4	The torrent broke out from the sojourner; being forgotten of the foot, they were weak, they wandered from men.
5	The earth, from it will come forth bread, and under it was turned as fire.
6	Its stones the place of the sapphire, and dust gold to it.
7	A beaten path the birds knew not, and the vulture’s eye scanned it not:
8	The sons of pride trod it not, and the lion passed not by upon it.
9	He stretched forth his hand upon the flint; he overturned the mountains from the roots.
10	He cut rivers in the rocks, and his eye saw every precious thing.
11	He bound the rivers from weeping, and he will bring forth the hidden thing to light.
12	And from whence shall wisdom be found? and where this place of understanding?
13	And man knew not its estimation, and it shall not be found in the land of the living.
14	The depth said, It is not in me: and the sea said, Not with me.
15	Shut up gold shall not be given for it, and silver shall not be weighed its price.
16	It shall not be weighed with gold of Ophir, with the precious onyx, and the sapphire.
17	Gold and crystal shall not compare with it, and its exchange, vessels of pure gold.
18	High things, and crystal, shall not be remembered: and the drawing out of wisdom above pearls.
19	The topaz of Cush shall not compare with it; with pure gold it shall not be weighed.
20	And from whence shall wisdom come? and where this place of understanding?
21	And being hid from the eyes of all living, and covered from the birds of the heavens.
22	Destruction and death said, We heard its report with our ears:
23	God understood its way, and he knew its place.
24	For he will look to the ends of the earth, he will see under all the heavens;
25	To make the weight for the wind; and he weighed the waters by measure.
26	In his making a law for the rain, and a way for the lightning of the voices.
27	Then he saw, and he will recount it; he prepared it, and also he searched it out.
28	And he will say to man, Behold, the fear of Jehovah, that is wisdom; and to depart from evil is understanding.