1	And Elihu will answer and say,
2	Hear, ye wise, my words; and ye knowing, give ear to me.
3	For the ear will try words, and the palate will taste of food.
4	We will choose to us judgment: we shall know between ourselves what is good.
5	For Job said, I was just: and God removed my judgment.
6	Shall I speak falsehood against my judgment? mine arrow was desperate without transgression.
7	What man as Job he will drink scoffing as water?
8	Going for company with those working iniquity, and to go with men of injustice?
9	For he said, It will not profit a man in delighting himself with God.
10	For this, ye men of heart, hear to me: far be it to God from doing evil; and the Almighty from iniquity.
11	For the work of man shall he recompense to him, and a man shall find himself according to his way.
12	Also surely God will not do evil, and the Almighty will not pervert judgment.
13	Who committed to him the earth? and who set up the habitable globe all of it?
14	If he will set his heart to him, he will gather his spirit and his breath to him;
15	All flesh shall expire together, and man shall turn back to dust.
16	If now understanding, hear this: give ear to the voice of my words.
17	Also shall he hating judgment, rule? and if thou wilt condemn the just mighty one?
18	Saying to the king, Wickedness; (Belial) to nobles, Injustice.
19	Who accepted not the face of chiefs, and looked not upon the rich one before the poor: for his hand made all of them.
20	In a moment shall they die, and the middle of the night shall the people be moved and pass away: and the mighty shall be removed with not a hand.
21	For his eyes are upon the ways of man, and he will see all his steps.
22	Not darkness and not the shadow of death for those working iniquity to hide there.
23	For he will not yet set upon man to go to God in judgment.
24	He shall break in pieces the mighty, not searching out, and he will set others in their stead.
25	For this he will know their work, and he turned the night, and they will be crushed.
26	He struck them for the unjust in the place of those seeing;
27	Who therefore turned away from after him, and they consider not all his ways,
28	To cause the cry of the poor one to come to him, and he will hear the cry of the humble.
29	And he will give quiet, and who shall disturb? and he will hide the face, and who shall look upon him? and against a nation and against man wholly:
30	From the reigning of the profane man from the people being snared.
31	For he said to God, I was lifted up, I will pervert no more.
32	Besides I shall see thou wilt teach it to me: if I did iniquity, I will not add.
33	Is it with thee? he will requite it, if thou didst refuse, if thou shalt choose, and not I: and what thou knewest, speak.
34	Men of heart will say to me, and a wise man heard to me.
35	Job will speak not with knowledge, and his word not with understanding.
36	My father, Job shall be tried even to the end, for turning back with men of iniquity.
37	He will add rebellion to his sin; he will clap between us, and he will multiply his words to God.