1	And Job will answer and say,
2	I would weighing, my anger shall be weighed, and my falls shall be lifted up in the balances together.
3	For now it will be heavy above the sand of the seas: for this my words were rash.
4	For the arrows of the Almighty are with me, which their anger drank up my spirit: the terrors of God will be prepared for me.
5	Shall the wild ass bray at grass? if the ox will low over his provender?
6	Shall that unseasoned be eaten without salt? if there is taste in purslain slime?
7	My soul refused to touch these as the loathsomeness of my bread.
8	Who will give my asking shall come? and will God give my expectation?
9	And God will, and he will crush me; will he let his hand remain, and will he cut me off?
10	And it will yet be my consolation, and I shall exult in pain: he will not spare; for I hid not the words of of the Holy One.
11	For what my strength that I shall wait and what my end, that I shall prolong my soul?
12	If my strength the strength of stones? if my flesh of brass?
13	And if not my help in me? and deliverance fled from me?
14	To him melting, mercy from his friend; and he will forsake the fear of the Almighty.
15	My brethren dealt faithlessly as a torrent; as a channel of torrents they shall pass away;
16	Being darkened because of ice, upon them the snow will be hid:
17	In the time they will flow of they became extinct: in its heat they were extinguished from their place.
18	The paths of their way will turn aside; they will go up into desolation and perish.
19	Behold the paths of Tema; the goings of Sheba, wait ye for them.
20	They were ashamed for trusting; they came even to it, they will be put to shame.
21	For now ye were not: ye shall see the terror and be afraid.
22	For did I say, Give to me? and from your strength make ye a present for me?
23	And deliver me from the hand of the enemy? and from the hand of the strong ye shall redeem me?
24	each ye me, and I will be silent: and what I erred in, cause me to understand.
25	How forcible were words of uprightness! and what will reproving from you prove?
26	Will ye purpose to reprove words, and for the spirit of the words of him despairing?
27	But ye will cause the orphans to fall, and ye will dig for your friend.
28	And now be content, look upon me; and before your face if I shall lie;
29	Turn ye back now, it shall not be iniquity; and turn back yet, my justice is in it.
30	Is there iniquity in my tongue? if my palate shall not understand calamities.