1	Now on the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came to the sepulcher, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them.
2	And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulcher.
3	And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus.
4	And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments:
5	And as they were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said to them, Why seek you the living among the dead?
6	He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spoke to you when he was yet in Galilee,
7	Saying, The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again.
8	And they remembered his words,
9	And returned from the sepulcher, and told all these things to the eleven, and to all the rest.
10	It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James, and other women that were with them, which told these things to the apostles.
11	And their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed them not.
12	Then arose Peter, and ran to the sepulcher; and stooping down, he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed, wondering in himself at that which was come to pass.
13	And, behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about three score furlongs.
14	And they talked together of all these things which had happened.
15	And it came to pass, that, while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them.
16	But their eyes were held that they should not know him.
17	And he said to them, What manner of communications are these that you have one to another, as you walk, and are sad?
18	And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said to him, Are you only a stranger in Jerusalem, and have not known the things which are come to pass there in these days?
19	And he said to them, What things? And they said to him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people:
20	And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and have crucified him.
21	But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel: and beside all this, to day is the third day since these things were done.
22	Yes, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulcher;
23	And when they found not his body, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive.
24	And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulcher, and found it even so as the women had said: but him they saw not.
25	Then he said to them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken:
26	Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory?
27	And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself.
28	And they drew near to the village, where they went: and he made as though he would have gone further.
29	But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us: for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them.
30	And it came to pass, as he sat at meat with them, he took bread, and blessed it, and broke, and gave to them.
31	And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished out of their sight.
32	And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures?
33	And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them,
34	Saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon.
35	And they told what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them in breaking of bread.
36	And as they thus spoke, Jesus himself stood in the middle of them, and said to them, Peace be to you.
37	But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they had seen a spirit.
38	And he said to them, Why are you troubled? and why do thoughts arise in your hearts?
39	Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit has not flesh and bones, as you see me have.
40	And when he had thus spoken, he showed them his hands and his feet.
41	And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said to them, Have you here any meat?
42	And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish, and of an honeycomb.
43	And he took it, and did eat before them.
44	And he said to them, These are the words which I spoke to you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me.
45	Then opened he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures,
46	And said to them, Thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day:
47	And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem.
48	And you are witnesses of these things.
49	And, behold, I send the promise of my Father on you: but tarry you in the city of Jerusalem, until you be endued with power from on high.
50	And he led them out as far as to Bethany, and he lifted up his hands, and blessed them.
51	And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he was parted from them, and carried up into heaven.
52	And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy:
53	And were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen.