1	After the blood of the guilty was shed, the Lord said to Moses, and to Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest:
2	“Number the entire sum of the sons of Israel, from twenty years and above, by their houses and kinships, all who are able to go forth to war.”
3	And so, Moses and Eleazar the priest, who were in the plains of Moab, above the Jordan, opposite Jericho, spoke to those who were
4	from twenty years and above, just as the Lord had commanded. And this is their number:
5	Ruben, the firstborn of Israel; his son, Hanoch, from whom is the family of the Hanochites; and Pallu, from whom is the family of the Palluites;
6	and Hezron, from whom is the family of the Hezronites; and Carmi, from whom is the family of the Carmites.
7	These are the families of the stock of Ruben, whose number was found to be forty-three thousand and seven hundred thirty.
8	The son of Phallu: Eliab;
9	his sons, Nemuel and Dathan and Abiram. These are Dathan and Abiram, the leaders of the people, who rose up against Moses and Aaron in the sedition at Korah, when they rebelled against the Lord.
10	And the earth, opening its mouth, devoured Korah, with many others dying, when the fire burned two hundred fifty men. And a great miracle was wrought,
11	so that, when Korah perished, his sons did not perish.
12	The sons of Simeon, by their kinships: Nemuel, from him is the family of the Nemuelites; Jamin, from him is the family of the Jaminites; Jachin, from him is the family of the Jachinites;
13	Sohar, from him is the family of the Soharites; Shaul, from him is the family of the Shaulites.
14	These are the families of the stock of Simeon, whose entire number was twenty-two thousand two hundred.
15	The sons of Gad, by their kinships: Zephon, from him is the family of the Zephonites; Haggi, from him is the family of the Haggites; Shuni, from him is the family of the Shunites;
16	Ozni, from him is the family of the Oznites; Eri, from him is the family of the Erites;
17	Arod, from him is the family of the Arodites; Areli, from him is the family of the Arelites.
18	These are the families of Gad, whose entire number was forty thousand five hundred.
19	The sons of Judah: Er and Onan, who both died in the land of Canaan.
20	And these were the sons of Judah, by their kinships: Shelah, from whom is the family of the Shelahites; Perez, from whom is the family of the Perezites; Zerah, from whom is the family of the Zerahites.
21	Moreover, the sons of Phares were: Hezron, from whom is the family of the Hezronites; and Hamul, from whom is the family of the Hamulites.
22	These are the families of Judah, whose entire number was seventy-six thousand five hundred.
23	The sons of Issachar, by their kinships: Tola from whom is the family of the Tolaites; Puvah, from whom is the family of the Puvahites;
24	Jashub, from whom is the family of the Jashubites; Shimron, from whom is the family of the Shimronites.
25	These are the kinships of Issachar, whose number was sixty-four thousand three hundred.
26	The sons of Zebulon by their kinships: Sered, from whom is the family of the Seredites; Elon, from whom is the family of the Elonites; Jahleel, from whom is the family of the Jahleelites.
27	These are the kinships of Zebulun, whose number was sixty thousand five hundred.
28	The sons of Joseph by their kinships: Manasseh and Ephraim.
29	From Manasseh was born Machir, from whom is the family of the Machirites. Machir conceived Gilead, from whom is the family of the Gileadites.
30	Gilead had sons: Jezer, from whom is the family of the Jezerites; and Helek, from whom is the family of the Helekites;
31	and Asriel, from whom is the family of the Asrielites; and Shechem, from whom is the family of the Shechemites;
32	and Shemida, from whom is the family of the Shemidaites; and Hepher, from whom is the family of the Hepherites.
33	Now Hepher was the father of Zelophehad, who had no sons, but only daughters, whose names are these: Mahlah, and Noa, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah.
34	These are the families of Manasseh, and their number was fifty-two thousand seven hundred.
35	Now the sons of Ephraim by their kinships were these: Shuthelah, from whom is the family of the Shuthelahites; Becher, from whom is the family of the Becherites; Tahan, from whom is the family of the Tahanites.
36	Furthermore, the son of Shuthelah was Eran, from whom is the family of the Eranites.
37	These are the kinships of the sons of Ephraim, whose number was thirty-two thousand five hundred.
38	These are the sons of Joseph by their families: the sons of Benjamin in their kinships: Bela, from whom is the family of the Belaites; Ashbel, from whom is the family of the Ashbelites; Ahiram, from whom is the family of the Ahiramites;
39	Shupham, from whom is the family of the Shuphamites; Hupham, from whom is the family of the Huphamites.
40	The sons of Bela: Arad and Naaman. From Arad, the family of the Aradites; from Naaman, the family of the Naamanites.
41	These are the sons of Benjamin by their kinships, whose number was forty-five thousand six hundred.
42	The sons of Dan by their kinships: Shuham, from whom is the family of the Shuhamites. These are the kinships of Dan by their families.
43	All these were Shuhamites, whose number was sixty-four thousand four hundred.
44	The sons of Asher by their kinships: Imnah, from whom is the family of the Imnahites; Ishvi, from whom is the family of the Ishvites; Beriah, from whom is the family of the Beriahites.
45	The sons of Beriah: Heber, from whom is the family of the Heberites; and Malchiel, from whom is the family of the Malchielites.
46	Now the name of the daughter of Asher was Serah.
47	These are the kinships of the sons of Asher, and their number was fifty-three thousand four hundred.
48	The sons of Naphtali by their kinships: Jahzeel, from whom is the family of the Jahzeelites; Guni, from whom is the family of the Gunites;
49	Jezer, from whom is the family of the Jezerites; Shillem, from whom is the family of the Shillemites.
50	These are the kinships of the sons of Naphtali by their families, whose number was forty-five thousand four hundred.
51	This is the sum of the sons of Israel, who were counted: six hundred thousand and one thousand seven hundred thirty.
52	And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:
53	“The land shall be divided to these, as their possessions, according to the number of their names.
54	To the greater number you shall give a greater portion, and to the lesser number, a lesser portion. To each one, just as they have now been counted, a possession shall be delivered.
55	Yet only in so far as the land is divided by lot to a tribe and to families.
56	Whatever the lot will happen to be, it shall be accepted, either by the greater, or by the lesser.
57	Likewise, this is the number of the sons of Levi by their families: Gershon, from whom is the family of the Gershonites; Kohath, from whom is the family of the Kohathites; Merari, from whom is the family of the Merarites.
58	These are the families of Levi: The family of Libni, the family of Hebroni, the family of Mahli, the family of Mushi, the family of Korah. Yet truly, Kohath conceived Amram,
59	who had a wife, Jochebed, the daughter of Levi, who was born to him in Egypt. She bore, to her husband Amram: sons, Aaron and Moses, as well as their sister, Miriam.
60	From Aaron were born Nadab and Abihu, and Eleazar and Ithamar.
61	Of these, Nadab and Abihu died, when they had offered strange fire before the Lord.
62	And these were all who were numbered: twenty-three thousand of the male gender, from one month and above. For they were not counted among the sons of Israel, neither was a possession given to them with the others.
63	This is the number of the sons of Israel, who were enrolled by Moses and by Eleazar the priest, in the plains of Moab, above the Jordan, opposite Jericho.
64	Among these, not one of them was numbered before, by Moses and Aaron in the desert of Sinai.
65	For the Lord had foretold that all would die in the wilderness. And not one of them remained, except Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun.