1	“Now the first day of the seventh month also shall be venerable and holy to you. In it, you shall not do any servile work, because it is the day of the sounding of the trumpets.
2	And you shall offer a holocaust, as a most sweet odor to the Lord: one calf from the herd, one ram, and seven immaculate one-year-old lambs;
3	and, as their sacrifices, fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil: three tenths for each calf, two tenths for a ram,
4	one tenth for a lamb, which all together are seven lambs;
5	and a he-goat for sin, which is offered as an expiation for the people,
6	aside from the holocaust of the first day of the month with its sacrifices, and the perpetual holocaust with the usual libations. By these same ceremonies, you shall offer incense as a most sweet odor to the Lord.
7	Likewise, the tenth day of this seventh month shall be for you holy and venerable, and you shall afflict your souls. You shall do no servile work in it.
8	And you shall offer a holocaust to the Lord, as a most sweet odor: one calf from the herd, one ram, seven immaculate one-year-old lambs;
9	and for their sacrifices, fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil: three tenths for each calf, two tenths for a ram,
10	one tenth for each lamb, which are all together seven lambs;
11	and a he-goat for sin, apart from those things which are usually offered for offenses as an expiation, and as a perpetual holocaust, with their sacrifice and libations.
12	Yet truly, on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, which shall be for you holy and venerable, you shall not do any servile work in it, but you shall celebrate a solemnity to the Lord for seven days.
13	And you shall offer a holocaust, as a most sweet odor to the Lord: thirteen calves from the herd, two rams, fourteen immaculate one-year-old lambs;
14	and as their libations, fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil: three tenths for each calf, which is all together thirteen calves, and two tenths for each ram, that is, all together two rams,
15	and one tenth for each lamb, which is all together fourteen lambs;
16	and a he-goat for sin, apart from the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice and its libation.
17	On the next day, you shall offer twelve calves from the herd, two rams, and fourteen immaculate one-year-old lambs.
18	And the sacrifices and libations for each of the calves and the rams and the lambs, you shall celebrate according to the rite,
19	with a he-goat for sin, apart from the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice and its libation.
20	On the third day, you shall offer eleven calves, two rams, and fourteen immaculate one-year-old lambs.
21	And the sacrifices and libations for each of the calves and the rams and the lambs, you shall celebrate according to the rite,
22	with a he-goat for sin, apart from the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice and its libation.
23	On the fourth day, you shall offer ten calves, two rams, and fourteen immaculate one-year-old lambs.
24	And the sacrifices and the libations for each of the calves and the rams and the lambs, you shall celebrate according to the rite,
25	with a he-goat for sin, apart from the perpetual holocaust, and its sacrifice and libation.
26	On the fifth day, you shall offer nine calves, two rams, and fourteen immaculate one-year-old lambs.
27	And the sacrifices and libations for each of the calves and the rams and the lambs, you shall celebrate according to the rite,
28	with a he-goat for sin, apart from the perpetual holocaust, and its sacrifice and libation.
29	On the sixth day, you shall offer eight calves, two rams, and fourteen immaculate one-year-old lambs.
30	And the sacrifices and libations for each of the calves and the rams and the lambs, you shall celebrate according to the rite,
31	with a he-goat for sin, apart from the perpetual holocaust, and its sacrifice and libation.
32	On the seventh day, you shall offer seven calves, and two rams, and fourteen immaculate one-year-old lambs.
33	And the sacrifices and libations for each of the calves and the rams and the lambs, you shall celebrate according to the rite,
34	with a he-goat for sin, apart from the perpetual holocaust, and its sacrifice and libation.
35	On the eighth day, which is most honored, you shall not do any servile work,
36	offering a holocaust as a most sweet odor to the Lord: one calf, one ram, and seven immaculate one-year-old lambs.
37	And the sacrifices and libations for each of the calves and the rams and the lambs, you shall celebrate according to the rite,
38	with a he-goat for sin, apart from the perpetual holocaust, and its sacrifice and libation.
39	These things you shall offer to the Lord in your solemnities, aside from the vowed and voluntary oblations, as a holocaust, as a sacrifice, as a libation, or as peace-offering victims.”
40	 And Moses explained to the sons of Israel all that the Lord had commanded him.