1	A FALSE balance is an abomination to the LORD: but a just weight is his delight.
2	When pride cometh, then cometh shame: but with the lowly is wisdom.
3	The integrity of the upright shall guide them: but the perverseness of the treacherous shall destroy them.
4	Riches profit not in the day of wrath: but righteousness delivereth from death.
5	The righteousness of the perfect shall direct his way: but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.
6	The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them: but they that deal treacherously shall be taken in their own mischief.
7	When a wicked man dieth his expectation shall perish: and the hope of iniquity perisheth.
8	The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked cometh in his stead.
9	With his mouth the godless man destroyeth his neighbour: but through knowledge shall the righteous be delivered.
10	When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth: and when the wicked perish, there is shouting.
11	By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted: but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
12	He that despiseth his neighbour is void of wisdom: but a man of understanding holdeth his peace.
13	He that goeth about as a talebearer revealeth secrets: but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter.
14	Where no wise guidance is, the people falleth: but in the multitude of counsellors there is safety.
15	He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it: but he that hateth suretiship is sure.
16	A gracious woman retaineth honour: and violent men retain riches.
17	The merciful man doeth good to his own soul: but he that is cruel troubleth his own flesh.
18	The wicked earneth deceitful wages: but he that soweth righteousness hath a sure reward.
19	He that is stedfast in righteousness shall attain unto life: and he that pursueth evil doeth it to his own death.
20	They that are perverse in heart are an abomination to the LORD: but such as are perfect in their way are his delight.
21	Though hand join in hand, the evil man shall not be unpunished: but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered.
22	As a jewel of gold in a swine’s snout, so is a fair woman which is without discretion.
23	The desire of the righteous is only good: but the expectation of the wicked is wrath.
24	There is that scattereth, and increaseth yet more; and there is that withholdeth more than is meet, but it tendeth only to want.
25	The liberal soul shall be made fat: and he that watereth shall be watered also himself.
26	He that withholdeth corn, the people shall curse him: but blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it.
27	He that diligently seeketh good seeketh favour: but he that searcheth after mischief, it shall come unto him.
28	He that trusteth in his riches shall fall: but the righteous shall flourish as the green leaf.
29	He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind: and the foolish shall be servant to the wise of heart.
30	The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he that is wise winneth souls.
31	Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth: how much more the wicked and the sinner!