1	Whoso loveth correction loveth knowledge: but he that hateth reproof is brutish.
2	A good man shall obtain favour of the LORD: but a man of wicked devices will he condemn.
3	A man shall not be established by wickedness: but the root of the righteous shall never be moved.
4	A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: but she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones.
5	The thoughts of the righteous are just: but the counsels of the wicked are deceit.
6	The words of the wicked are of lying in wait for blood: but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them.
7	The wicked are overthrown, and are not: but the house of the righteous shall stand.
8	A man shall be commended according to his wisdom: but he that is of a perverse heart shall be despised.
9	Better is he that is lightly esteemed, and hath a servant, than he that honoureth himself, and lacketh bread.
10	A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast: but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.
11	He that tilleth his land shall have plenty of bread: but he that followeth after vain persons is void of understanding.
12	The wicked desireth the net of evil men: but the root of the righteous yieldeth fruit.
13	In the transgression of the lips is a snare to the evil man: but the righteous shall come out of trouble.
14	A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth: and the doings of a man’s hands shall be rendered unto him.
15	The way of the foolish is right in his own eyes: but he that is wise hearkeneth unto counsel.
16	A fool’s vexation is presently known: but a prudent man concealeth shame.
17	He that uttereth truth sheweth forth righteousness, but a false witness deceit.
18	There is that speaketh rashly like the piercings of a sword: but the tongue of the wise is health.
19	The lip of truth shall be established for ever: but a lying tongue is but for a moment.
20	Deceit is in the heart of them that devise evil: but to the counsellors of peace is joy.
21	There shall no mischief happen to the righteous: but the wicked shall be filled with evil.
22	Lying lips are an abomination to the LORD: but they that deal truly are his delight.
23	A prudent man concealeth knowledge: but the heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness.
24	The hand of the diligent shall bear rule: but the slothful shall be put under taskwork.
25	Heaviness in the heart of a man maketh it stoop; but a good word maketh it glad.
26	The righteous is a guide to his neighbour: but the way of the wicked causeth them to err.
27	The slothful man roasteth not that which he took in hunting: but the precious substance of men is to the diligent.
28	In the way of righteousness is life; and in the pathway thereof there is no death.