1	A WISE son heareth his father’s instruction: but a scorner heareth not rebuke.
2	A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth: but the soul of the treacherous shall eat violence.
3	He that guardeth his mouth keepeth his life: but he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction.
4	The soul of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing: but the soul of the diligent shall be made fat.
5	A righteous man hateth lying: but a wicked man is loathsome, and cometh to shame.
6	Righteousness guardeth him that is upright in the way: but wickedness overthroweth the sinner.
7	There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing: there is that maketh himself poor, yet hath great wealth.
8	The ransom of a man’s life is his riches: but the poor heareth no threatening.
9	The light of the righteous rejoiceth: but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
10	By pride cometh only contention: but with the well advised is wisdom.
11	Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished: but he that gathereth by labour shall have increase.
12	Hope deferred maketh the heart sick: but when the desire cometh, it is a tree of life.
13	Whoso despiseth the word bringeth destruction on himself: but he that feareth the commandment shall be rewarded.
14	The law of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.
15	Good understanding giveth favour: but the way of the treacherous is rugged.
16	Every prudent man worketh with knowledge: but a fool spreadeth out folly.
17	A wicked messenger falleth into evil: but a faithful ambassador is health.
18	Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuseth correction: but he that regardeth reproof shall be honoured.
19	The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul: but it is an abomination to fools to depart from evil.
20	Walk with wise men, and thou shalt be wise: but the companion of fools shall smart for it.
21	Evil pursueth sinners: but the righteous shall be recompensed with good.
22	A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children’s children; and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the righteous.
23	Much food is in the tillage of the poor: but there is that is destroyed by reason of injustice.
24	He that spareth his rod hateth his son: but he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes.
25	The righteous eateth to the satisfying of his soul: but the belly of the wicked shall want.