1	He that separateth himself seeketh his own desire, and rageth against all sound wisdom.
2	A fool hath no delight in understanding, but only that his heart may reveal itself.
3	When the wicked cometh, there cometh also contempt, and with ignominy cometh reproach.
4	The words of a man’s mouth are as deep waters; the wellspring of wisdom is as a flowing brook.
5	To accept the person of the wicked is not good, nor to turn aside the righteous in judgment.
6	A fool’s lips enter into contention, and his mouth calleth for stripes.
7	A fool’s mouth is his destruction, and his lips are the snare of his soul.
8	The words of a whisperer are as dainty, morsels, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.
9	He also that is slack in his work is brother to him that is a destroyer.
10	The name of the LORD is a strong tower: the righteous runneth into it, and is safe.
11	The rich man’s wealth is his strong city, and as an high wall in his own imagination.
12	Before destruction the heart of man is haughty, and before honour goeth humility.
13	He that giveth answer before he heareth, it is folly and shame unto him.
14	The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; but a broken spirit who can bear?
15	The heart of the prudent getteth knowledge; and the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge.
16	A man’s gift maketh room for him, and bringeth him before great men.
17	He that pleadeth his cause first seemeth just; but his neighbour cometh and searcheth him out.
18	The lot causeth contentions to cease, and parteth between the mighty.
19	A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city: and such contentions are like the bars of a castle.
20	A man’s belly shall be filled with the fruit of his mouth; with the increase of his lips shall he be satisfied.
21	Death and life are in the power of the tongue; and they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof.
22	Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing, and obtaineth favour of the LORD.
23	The poor useth entreaties: but the rich answereth roughly.
24	He that maketh many friends doeth it to his own destruction: but there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother.