1	When thou sittest to eat with a ruler, consider diligently him that is before thee;
2	And put a knife to thy throat, if thou be a man given to appetite.
3	Be not desirous of his dainties; seeing they are deceitful meat.
4	Weary not thyself to be rich; cease from thine own wisdom.
5	Wilt thou set thine eyes upon that which is not? for riches certainly make themselves wings, like an eagle that flieth toward heaven.
6	Eat thou not the bread of him that hath an evil eye, neither desire thou his dainties:
7	For as he reckoneth within himself, so is he: Eat and drink, saith he to thee; but his heart is not with thee.
8	The morsel which thou hast eaten shalt thou vomit up, and lose thy sweet words.
9	Speak not in the hearing of a fool; for he will despise the wisdom of thy words.
10	Remove not the ancient landmark; and enter not into the fields of the fatherless:
11	For their redeemer is strong; he shall plead their cause against thee.
12	Apply thine heart unto instruction, and thine ears to the words of knowledge.
13	Withhold not correction from the child: for if thou beat him with the rod, he shall not die.
14	Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and shalt deliver his soul from Sheol.
15	My son, if thine heart be wise, my heart shall be glad, even mine:
16	Yea, my reins shall rejoice, when thy lips speak right things.
17	Let not thine heart envy sinners: but be thou in the fear of the LORD all the day long:
18	For surely there is a reward; and thy hope shall not be cut off.
19	Hear thou, my son, and be wise, and guide thine heart in the way.
20	Be not among winebibbers; among gluttonous eaters of flesh:
21	For the drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty: and drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags.
22	Hearken unto thy father that begat thee, and despise not thy mother when she is old.
23	Buy the truth, and sell it not; yea, wisdom, and instruction, and understanding.
24	The father of the righteous shall greatly rejoice: and he that begetteth a wise child shall have joy of him.
25	Let thy father and thy mother be glad, and let her that bare thee rejoice.
26	My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes delight in my ways.
27	For a whore is a deep ditch; and a strange woman is a narrow pit.
28	Yea, she lieth in wait as a robber, and increaseth the treacherous among men.
29	Who hath woe? who hath sorrow? who hath contentions? who hath complaining? who hath wounds without cause? who hath redness of eyes?
30	They that tarry long at the wine; they that go to seek out mixed wine.
31	Look not thou upon the wine when it is red, when it giveth its colour in the cup, when it goeth down smoothly.
32	At the last it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an adder.
33	Thine eyes shall behold strange things, and thine heart shall utter froward things.
34	Yea, thou shalt be as he that lieth down in the midst of the sea, or as he that lieth upon the top of a mast.
35	They have stricken me, shalt thou say, and I was not hurt; they have beaten me, and I felt it not: when shall I awake? I will seek it yet again.