1	These also are proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied out.
2	It is the glory of God to conceal a thing: but the glory of kings is to search out a matter.
3	The heaven for height, and the earth for depth, and the heart of kings is unsearchable.
4	Take away the dross from the silver, and there cometh forth a vessel for the finer:
5	Take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne shall be established in righteousness.
6	Put not thyself forward in the presence of the king, and stand not in the place of great men:
7	For better is it that it be said unto thee, Come up hither; than that thou shouldest be put lower in the presence of the prince, whom thine eyes have seen.
8	Go not forth hastily to strive, lest thou know not what to do in the end thereof, when thy neighbour hath put thee to shame.
9	Debate thy cause with thy neighbour himself, and disclose not the secret of another:
10	Lest he that heareth it revile thee, and thine infamy turn not away.
11	A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in baskets of silver.
12	As an earring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a wise reprover upon an obedient ear.
13	As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to them that send him; for he refresheth the soul of his masters.
14	As clouds and wind without rain, so is he that boasteth himself of his gifts falsely.
15	By long forbearing is a ruler persuaded, and a soft tongue breaketh the bone.
16	Hast thou found honey? eat so much as is sufficient for thee; lest thou be filled therewith, and vomit it.
17	Let thy foot be seldom in thy neighbour’s house; lest he be weary of thee, and hate thee.
18	A man that beareth false witness against his neighbour is a maul, and a sword, and a sharp arrow.
19	Confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is like a broken tooth, and a foot out of joint.
20	As one that taketh off a garment in cold weather, and as vinegar upon nitre, so is he that singeth songs to an heavy heart.
21	If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he be thirsty, give him water to drink:
22	For thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head, and the LORD shall reward thee.
23	The north wind bringeth forth rain: so doth a backbiting tongue an angry countenance.
24	It is better to dwell in the comer of the housetop, than with a contentious woman in a wide house.
25	As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country.
26	As a troubled fountain, and a corrupted spring, so is a righteous man that giveth way before the wicked.
27	It is not good to eat much honey: so for men to search out their own glory is not glory.
28	He whose spirit is without restraint is like a city that is broken down and hath no wall.