1	As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honour is not seemly for a fool.
2	As the sparrow in her wandering, as the swallow in her flying, so the curse that is causeless lighteth not.
3	A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod for the back of fools.
4	Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto him.
5	Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit.
6	He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool cutteth off his own feet, and drinketh in damage.
7	The legs of the lame hang loose: so is a parable in the mouth of fools.
8	As a bag of gems in a heap of stones, so is he that giveth honour to a fool.
9	As a thorn that goeth up into the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable in the month of fools.
10	As an archer that woundeth all, so is he that hireth the fool and he that hireth them that pass by.
11	As a dog that returneth to his vomit, so is a fool that repeateth his folly.
12	Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit? there is more hope of a fool than of him.
13	The sluggard saith, There is a lion in the way; a lion is in the streets.
14	As the door turneth upon its hinges, so doth the sluggard upon his bed.
15	The sluggard burieth his hand in the dish; it wearieth him to bring it again to his mouth.
16	The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can render a reason.
17	He that passeth by, and vexeth himself with strife belonging not to him, is like one that taketh a dog by the ears.
18	As a madman who casteth firebrands, arrows, and death;
19	So is the man that deceiveth his neighbour, and saith, Am not I in sport?
20	For lack of wood the fire goeth out: and where there is no whisperer, contention ceaseth.
21	As coals are to hot embers, and wood to fire; so is a contentious man to inflame strife.
22	The words of a whisperer are as dainty morsels, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.
23	Fervent lips and a wicked heart are like an earthen vessel overlaid with silver dross.
24	He that hateth dissembleth with his lips, but he layeth up deceit within him:
25	When he speaketh fair, believe him not; for there are seven abominations in his heart:
26	Though his hatred cover itself with guile, his wickedness shall be openly shewed before the congregation.
27	Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein: and he that rolleth a stone, it shall return upon him.
28	A lying tongue hateth those whom it hath wounded; and a flattering mouth worketh ruin.