1	But, as a help to you, we exhort you not to receive the grace of God in vain.
2	For he says: “In a favorable time, I heeded you; and on the day of salvation, I helped you.” Behold, now is the favorable time; behold, now is the day of salvation.
3	May we never give offense to anyone, so that our ministry may not be disparaged.
4	But in all things, let us exhibit ourselves as ministers of God with great patience: through tribulation, difficulties, and distress;
5	despite wounds, imprisonment, and rebellion; with hard work, vigilance, and fasting;
6	by chastity, knowledge, and longsuffering; in pleasantness, in the Holy Spirit, and in unfeigned charity;
7	with the Word of truth, with the power of God, and with the armor of justice to the right and to the left;
8	through honor and dishonor, despite good reports and bad, whether seen as deceivers or truth-tellers, whether ignored or acknowledged;
9	as if dying and yet truly alive; as if chastised and yet not subdued;
10	as if sorrowful and yet always rejoicing; as if needy and yet enriching many; as if having nothing and possessing everything.
11	Our mouth is open to you, O Corinthians; our heart is enlarged.
12	You are not narrowed by us, but it is by your own inner selves that you are narrowed.
13	But since we have the same recompense, (I am speaking as if to my own sons), you, too, should be enlarged.
14	Do not choose to bear the yoke with unbelievers. For how can justice be a participant with iniquity? Or how can the fellowship of light be a participant with darkness?
15	And how can Christ join together with Belial? Or what part do the faithful have with the unfaithful?
16	And what consensus does the temple of God have with idols? For you are the temple of the living God, just as God says: “I will dwell with them, and I will walk among them. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
17	Because of this, you must depart from their midst and be separate, says the Lord. And do not touch what is unclean.
18	Then I will accept you. And I will be a Father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty.”