1	For I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and they all went across the sea.
2	And in Moses, they all were baptized, in the cloud and in the sea.
3	And they all ate of the same spiritual food.
4	And they all drank of the same spiritual drink. And so, they all were drinking of the spiritual rock seeking to obtain them; and that rock was Christ.
5	But with most of them, God was not well-pleased. For they were struck down in the desert.
6	Now these things were done as an example for us, so that we might not desire evil things, just as they desired.
7	And so, do not take part in idolatry, as some of them did, just as it was written: “The people sat down to eat and to drink, and then they rose up to amuse themselves.”
8	And let us not commit fornication, as some of them fornicated, and so twenty-three thousand fell on one day.
9	And let us not tempt Christ, as some of them tempted, and so they perished by serpents.
10	And you should not murmur, as some of them murmured, and so they perished by the destroyer.
11	Now all of these things happened to them as an example, and so they have been written for our correction, because the final age has fallen upon us.
12	And so, whosoever considers himself to be standing, let him be careful not to fall.
13	Temptation should not take hold of you, except what is human. For God is faithful, and he will not permit you to be tempted beyond your ability. Instead, he will effect his Providence, even during temptation, so that you may be able to bear it.
14	Because of this, most beloved of mine, flee from the worship of idols.
15	Since I am speaking to those who are prudent, judge what I say for yourselves.
16	The cup of benediction that we bless, is it not a communion in the Blood of Christ? And the bread that we break, is it not a participation in the Body of the Lord?
17	Through the one bread, we, though many, are one body: all of us who are partakers of the one bread.
18	Consider Israel, according to the flesh. Are not those who eat from the sacrifices partakers of the altar?
19	What is next? Should I say that what is immolated to idols is anything? Or that the idol is anything?
20	But the things that the Gentiles immolate, they immolate to demons, and not to God. And I do not want you to become partakers with demons.
21	You cannot drink the cup of the Lord, and the cup of demons. You cannot be partakers of the table of the Lord, and partakers of the table of demons.
22	Or should we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he is? All is lawful to me, but not all is expedient.
23	All is lawful to me, but not all is edifying.
24	Let no one seek for himself, but for others.
25	Whatever is sold in the market, you may eat, without asking questions for the sake of conscience.
26	“The earth and all its fullness belong to the Lord.”
27	If you are invited by any unbelievers, and you are willing to go, you may eat whatever is set before you, without asking questions for the sake of conscience.
28	But if anyone says, “This has been sacrificed to idols,” do not eat it, for the sake of the one who told you, and for the sake of conscience.
29	But I am referring to the conscience of the other person, not to yours. For why should my liberty be judged by the conscience of another?
30	If I partake with thanksgiving, why should I be slandered over that for which I give thanks?
31	Therefore, whether you eat or drink, or whatever else you may do, do everything for the glory of God.
32	Be without offense toward the Jews, and toward the Gentiles, and toward the Church of God,
33	just as I also, in all things, please everyone, not seeking what is best for myself, but what is best for many others, so that they may be saved.