1	Now concerning spiritual things, I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers.
2	You know that when you were Gentiles, you approached mute idols, doing what you were led to do.
3	Because of this, I would have you know that no one speaking in the Spirit of God utters a curse against Jesus. And no one is able to say that Jesus is Lord, except in the Holy Spirit.
4	Truly, there are diverse graces, but the same Spirit.
5	And there are diverse ministries, but the same Lord.
6	And there are diverse works, but the same God, who works everything in everyone.
7	However, the manifestation of the Spirit is given to each one toward what is beneficial.
8	Certainly, to one, through the Spirit, is given words of wisdom; but to another, according to the same Spirit, words of knowledge;
9	to another, in the same Spirit, faith; to another, in the one Spirit, the gift of healing;
10	to another, miraculous works; to another, prophecy; to another, the discernment of spirits; to another, different kinds of languages; to another, the interpretation of words.
11	But one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each one according to his will.
12	For just as the body is one, and yet has many parts, so all the parts of the body, though they are many, are only one body. So also is Christ.
13	And indeed, in one Spirit, we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Gentiles, whether servant or free. And we all drank in the one Spirit.
14	For the body, too, is not one part, but many.
15	If the foot were to say, “Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body,” would it then not be of the body?
16	And if the ear were to say, “Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body,” would it then not be of the body?
17	If the whole body were the eye, how would it hear? If the whole were hearing, how would it smell?
18	But instead, God has placed the parts, each one of them, in the body, just as it has pleased him.
19	So if they were all one part, how would it be a body?
20	But instead, there are many parts, indeed, yet one body.
21	And the eye cannot say to the hand, “I have no need for your works.” And again, the head cannot say to the feet, “You are of no use to me.”
22	In fact, so much more necessary are those parts of the body which seem to be weaker.
23	And though we consider certain parts of the body to be less noble, we surround these with more abundant dignity, and so, those parts which are less presentable end up with more abundant respect.
24	However, our presentable parts have no such need, since God has tempered the body together, distributing the more abundant honor to that which has the need,
25	so that there might be no schism in the body, but instead the parts themselves might take care of one another.
26	And so, if one part suffers anything, all the parts suffer with it. Or, if one part finds glory, all the parts rejoice with it.
27	Now you are the body of Christ, and parts like any part.
28	And indeed, God has established a certain order in the Church: first Apostles, second Prophets, third Teachers, next miracle-workers, and then the grace of healing, of helping others, of governing, of different kinds of languages, and of the interpretation of words.
29	Are all Apostles? Are all Prophets? Are all Teachers?
30	Are all workers of miracles? Do all have the grace of healing? Do all speak in tongues? Do all interpret?
31	But be zealous for the better charisms. And I reveal to you a yet more excellent way.