1	Pursue charity. Be zealous for spiritual things, but only so that you may prophesy.
2	For whoever speaks in tongues, speaks not to men, but to God. For no one understands. Yet by the Spirit, he speaks mysteries.
3	But whoever prophesies speaks to men for edification and exhortation and consolation.
4	Whoever speaks in tongues edifies himself. But whoever prophesies edifies the Church.
5	Now I want you all to speak in tongues, but more so to prophesy. For he who prophesies is greater than he who speaks in tongues, unless perhaps he interprets, so that the Church may receive edification.
6	But now, brothers, if I were to come to you speaking in tongues, how would it benefit you, unless instead I speak to you in revelation, or in knowledge, or in prophecy, or in doctrine?
7	Even those things that are without a soul can make sounds, whether it is a wind or a stringed instrument. But unless they present a distinction within the sounds, how will it be known which is from the pipe and which is from the string?
8	For example, if the trumpet made an uncertain sound, who would prepare himself for battle?
9	So it is with you also, for unless you utter with the tongue in plain speech, how will it be known what is said? For then you would be speaking into the air.
10	Consider that there are so many different kinds of languages in this world, and yet none is without a voice.
11	Therefore, if I do not understand the nature of the voice, then I shall be like a foreigner to the one with whom I am speaking; and he who is speaking will be like a foreigner to me.
12	So it is with you also. And since you are zealous for what is spiritual, seek the edification of the Church, so that you may abound.
13	For this reason, too, whoever speaks in tongues, let him pray for the interpretation.
14	So, if I pray in tongues, my spirit prays, but my mind is without fruit.
15	What is next? I should pray with the spirit, and also pray with the mind. I should sing psalms with the spirit, and also recite psalms with the mind.
16	Otherwise, if you have blessed only with the spirit, how can someone, in a state of ignorance, add an “Amen” to your blessing? For he does not know what you are saying.
17	In this case, certainly, you give thanks well, but the other person is not edified.
18	I thank my God that I speak in tongues for all of you.
19	But in the Church, I prefer to speak five words from my mind, so that I may instruct others also, rather than ten thousand words in tongues.
20	Brothers, do not choose to have the minds of children. Instead, be free of malice like infants, but be mature in your minds.
21	It is written in the law: “I will speak to this people with other tongues and other lips, and even so, they will not heed me, says the Lord.”
22	And so, tongues are a sign, not for believers, but for unbelievers; and prophecies are not for unbelievers, but for believers.
23	If then, the entire Church were to gather together as one, and if all were to speak in tongues, and then ignorant or unbelieving persons were to enter, would they not say that you were insane?
24	But if everyone prophesies, and one who is ignorant or unbelieving enters, he may be convinced by it all, because he understands it all.
25	The secrets of his heart are then made manifest. And so, falling to his face, he would adore God, proclaiming that God is truly among you.
26	What is next, brothers? When you gather together, each one of you may have a psalm, or a doctrine, or a revelation, or a language, or an interpretation, but let everything be done for edification.
27	If anyone is speaking in tongues, let there be only two, or at most three, and then in turn, and let someone interpret.
28	But if there is no one to interpret, he should remain silent in the church, then he may speak when he is alone with God.
29	And let the prophets speak, two or three, and let the others discern.
30	But then, if something is revealed to another who is sitting, let the first one become silent.
31	For you are all able to prophesy one at a time, so that all may learn and all may be encouraged.
32	For the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets.
33	And God is not of dissension, but of peace, just as I also teach in all the churches of the saints.
34	Women should be silent in the churches. For it is not permitted for them to speak; but instead, they should be subordinate, as the law also says.
35	And if they want to learn anything, let them ask their husbands at home. For it is disgraceful for a woman to speak in church.
36	So now, did the Word of God proceed from you? Or was it sent to you alone?
37	If anyone seems to be a prophet or a spiritual person, he should understand these things which I am writing to you, that these things are the commandments of the Lord.
38	If anyone does not recognize these things, he should not be recognized.
39	And so, brothers, be zealous to prophesy, and do not prohibit speaking in tongues.
40	But let everything be done respectfully and according to proper order.