1	Hear ye now what the LORD saith: Arise, contend thou before the mountains, And let the hills hear thy voice.
2	Hear, O ye mountains, the LORD’S controversy, And ye enduring rocks, the foundations of the earth; For the LORD hath a controversy with His people, And He will plead with Israel.
3	O My people, what have I done unto thee? And wherein have I wearied thee? Testify against Me.
4	For I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt, And redeemed thee out of the house of bondage, And I sent before thee Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.
5	O My people, remember now what Balak king of Moab devised, And what Balaam the son of Beor answered him; From Shittim unto Gilgal, That ye may know the righteous acts of the LORD.
6	Wherewith shall I come before the LORD, And bow myself before God on high? Shall I come before Him with burnt-offerings, With calves of a year old?
7	Will the LORD be pleased with thousands of rams, With ten thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my first-born for my transgression, The fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?’
8	It hath been told thee, O man, what is good, And what the LORD doth require of thee: Only to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God.
9	Hark! the LORD crieth unto the city—And it is wisdom to have regard for Thy name—Hear ye the rod, and who hath appointed it.
10	Are there yet the treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, And the scant measure that is abominable?
11	Shall I be pure with wicked balances, And with a bag of deceitful weights?’
12	For the rich men thereof are full of violence, And the inhabitants thereof have spoken lies, And their tongue is deceitful in their mouth.
13	Therefore I also do smite thee with a grievous wound; I do make thee desolate because of thy sins.
14	Thou shalt eat, but not be satisfied; And thy sickness shall be in thine inward parts; And thou shalt conceive, but shalt not bring forth; And whomsoever thou bringest forth will I give up to the sword.
15	Thou shalt sow, but shalt not reap; Thou shalt tread the olives, but shalt not anoint thee with oil; And the vintage, but shalt not drink wine.
16	For the statutes of Omri are kept, And all the works of the house of Ahab, And ye walk in their counsels; That I may make thee an astonishment, And the inhabitants thereof a hissing; And ye shall bear the reproach of My people.