1	And it came to pass after these things, that God did tempt Abraham, and said to him, Abraham: and he said, Behold, here I am.
2	And he said, Take now your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and get you into the land of Moriah; and offer him there for a burnt offering on one of the mountains which I will tell you of.
3	And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and split the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up, and went to the place of which God had told him.
4	Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the place afar off.
5	And Abraham said to his young men, Abide you here with the ass; and I and the lad will go yonder and worship, and come again to you.
6	And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid it on Isaac his son; and he took the fire in his hand, and a knife; and they went both of them together.
7	And Isaac spoke to Abraham his father, and said, My father: and he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood: but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?
8	And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering: so they went both of them together.
9	And they came to the place which God had told him of; and Abraham built an altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar on the wood.
10	And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay his son.
11	And the angel of the LORD called to him out of heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham: and he said, Here am I.
12	And he said, Lay not your hand on the lad, neither do you any thing to him: for now I know that you fear God, seeing you have not withheld your son, your only son from me.
13	And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold behind him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns: and Abraham went and took the ram, and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his son.
14	And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovahjireh: as it is said to this day, In the mount of the LORD it shall be seen.
15	And the angel of the LORD called to Abraham out of heaven the second time,
16	And said, By myself have I sworn, said the LORD, for because you have done this thing, and have not withheld your son, your only son:
17	That in blessing I will bless you, and in multiplying I will multiply your seed as the stars of the heaven, and as the sand which is on the sea shore; and your seed shall possess the gate of his enemies;
18	And in your seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed; because you have obeyed my voice.
19	So Abraham returned to his young men, and they rose up and went together to Beersheba; and Abraham dwelled at Beersheba.
20	And it came to pass after these things, that it was told Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she has also born children to your brother Nahor;
21	Huz his firstborn, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the father of Aram,
22	And Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.
23	And Bethuel begat Rebekah: these eight Milcah did bear to Nahor, Abraham’s brother.
24	And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she bore also Tebah, and Gaham, and Thahash, and Maachah.