1	And a certain man was in Cesarea by name Cornelius, a centurion of the band called Italian,
2	Religious, and fearing God with all his house, and doing many alms to the people, and praying God always.
3	He saw in a vision manifestly about the ninth hour of the day a messenger of God having come in to him, and saying to him, Cornelius.
4	And having looked at him intently, and being afraid, he said, What is it, Lord? And he said to him, Thy prayers and thine alms went up for remembrance before God.
5	And now send men to Joppa, and send for Simon, who is called Peter:
6	He is received as guest with a certain Simon a currier, to whom is a house by the sea: he shall speak to thee what thou must do.
7	And when the messenger speaking to Cornelius departed, having called two of his servants, and a religious soldier of those persevering with him;
8	And having related all to them, he sent them to Joppa.
9	And the morrow, these traveling, and drawing near to the city, Peter went up upon the house to pray about the sixth hour:
10	And he was hungry, and would have eaten: and these making ready, a deep trance fell upon him,
11	And he sees heaven opened, and a certain vessel descending upon him, as a great linen napkin fastened at the four beginnings, and laid down upon the earth:
12	In which were all the quadrupeds of the earth, and wild beasts, and creeping things, and the flying things of heaven.
13	And a voice was to him, Having risen, Peter, kill, and eat.
14	And Peter said, By no means, Lord; for never ate I anything common or unclean.
15	And a voice again of a second time to him, What things God cleansed, do not thou make common.
16	And this was for thrice: and again was the vessel taken up into heaven.
17	And as Peter was doubting in himself what the vision might be which he saw, and behold, the man sent from Cornelius having asked for Simon’s house, stood at the gate,
18	And having called, they were inquiring if Simon, surnamed Peter, is received there as a guest.
19	And Peter reflecting concerning the vision, the Spirit said to him, Behold, three men seek thee.
20	But thou having risen, come down, and go with them, discussing nothing; for I have sent them.
21	And Peter having come down to the men sent from Cornelius to him, said, Behold, I am he whom ye seek: what the cause for which ye are present?
22	And they said, Cornelius the centurion, a just man, and fearing God, and witnessed of by the whole nation of the Jews, received intimation of the divine will by a holy messenger to send for thee to his house, and hear words of thee.
23	Therefore having called them in, he received as guests. And on the morrow Peter came forth with them, and certain of the brethren from Joppa came with him.
24	And the morrow he came to Cesarea. And Cornelius was waiting for them, having called together his kinsmen and friends by relationship.
25	And it was as Peter came in, Cornelius having met him, having fallen at his feet, worshipped.
26	And Peter raised him up, saying, Arise: I am also myself man.
27	And discoursing with him, he came in, and finds many come together.
28	And he said to them, Ye know that it is violating law for a man a Jew to join himself, or come near to a strange tribe: and God shewed me to call no man common or unclean.
29	And therefore came I without contradiction, having been sent for; therefore I inquire for what word ye sent for me?
30	And Cornelius said, From the fourth day till this hour I was fasting; and the ninth hour praying in my house, and, behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing,
31	And he says, Cornelius, thy prayer was harkened to, and thine alms remembered before God.
32	Therefore send to Joppa, and call for Simon, who is surnamed Peter; he is received as guest in the house of Simon the currier by the sea: who, being present, shall speak to thee.
33	From this therefore sent I to thee: and thou didst well being present. Now therefore are all we present before God, to hear all commanded thee of God.
34	And Peter having opened the month; said, of a truth I comprehend that God is no respecter of faces!
35	But in every nation he fearing him, and working justice, is acceptable to him.
36	The word which he sent to the sons of Israel, announcing good news, peace through Jesus Christ: (he is Lord of all.)
37	The word ye know, having been through the whole of Judea, having begun from Galilee, after the immersion which John preached;
38	Jesus from Nazareth, how God anointed him with the Holy Spirit and power; who passed through doing good, and healing all oppressed by the devil; for God was with him.
39	And ye are witnesses of all which he did in the country of the Jews, and in Jerusalem; whom they killed, having hanged upon wood:
40	Him God raised the third day, and gave him to be manifest;
41	Not to all people, but to witnesses chosen before by God, to us, who ate and drank with him after his rising from the dead.
42	And he enjoined us to proclaim to the people, and to testify that this is he appointed by God, Judge of the living and the dead.
43	To him all the prophets testify, for all believing on him to receive remission of sins through his name.
44	Peter yet speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all hearing the word.
45	And believers of the circumcision were affected in mind, as many as came with Peter, that also upon the nations the gift of the Holy Spirit was poured out.
46	For they heard them speaking with tongues, and magnifying God. Then answered Peter,
47	Much less can any hinder water, for these not to be immersed, who received the Holy Spirit as also we?
48	And he commanded them to be immersed in the name of the Lord. Then asked they him to remain certain days.