1	And after these Paul having departed from Athens, came to Corinth;
2	And having found a certain Jew by name Aquila, a Pontian by birth, having recently come from Italy, and Priscilla his wife; (for Claudius had ordered all Jews to be separated from Rome:) came to them.
3	And because being of the same trade, he remained with them, and wrought: for they were by trade tentmakers.
4	And he discussed in the synagogue on every sabbath, and persuaded Jews and Greeks.
5	And when both Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul was oppressed in spirit, testifying to the Jews Jesus Christ.
6	And they opposing, and blaspheming, having shaken off the garments violently, he said to them, Your blood upon your head; I clean: from now will I go to the nations.
7	And having gone away thence, he came to the house of a certain Justus by name, worshipping God, whose house was adjoining the synagogue.
8	And Crispus, ruler of the synagogue, believed the Lord with his whole house; and many of the Corinthians hearing believed, and were baptised.
9	And the Lord said through a vision by night to Paul, Fear not, but speak, and thou shouldest not be silent:
10	For I am with thee, and none shall attack thee to injure thee: for much people are to me in this city.
11	And he sat a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
12	And Gallio being proconsul of Achaia, the Jews arose unanimously against Paul, and brought him to the judgment seat,
13	Saying, This one persuades men to worship God against the law.
14	And Paul being about to open the mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, If therefore it were truly any injustice or wicked, criminal action, O Jews, against the word, I should have borne with you:
15	But if it is a question of the word, and names, and law, according to you, see ye yourselves; for I will not be judge of these.
16	And he drave them away from the judgment seat.
17	And all the Greeks having taken Sosthenes, ruler of the synagogue, beat before the judgment seat. And Gallio cared for none of these.
18	And Paul yet having remained sufficient days, having taken leave of the brethren, sailed out to Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila; having shorn the head in Cenchrea: for he had a vow.
19	And Paul arrived at Ephesus, and left those of his: and he having come into the synagogue, discussed with the Jews.
20	And they asking to remain with them for more time, he acquiesced not;
21	But he took leave of them, saying, I must at any rate do the coming festival in Jerusalem: and I will again return to you, God willing. And he was conveyed from Ephesus.
22	And having come down to Cesarea having gone up and greeted the church, he went down to Antioch.
23	And having made a certain time, he came out, passing in order the Galatian country and Phrygia, supporting all the disciples.
24	And a certain Jew, Apollos by name, an Alexandrian by birth, an eloquent man, arrived at Ephesus, being able in the writings.
25	He was instructed in the way of the Lord; and boiling up in the spirit, he spake and taught attentively the things of the Lord, knowing only the immersion of John.
26	And he began to speak freely in the synagogue: and Priscilla and Aquila having heard him, took him, and set forth to him the way of God more accurately.
27	And he wishing to pass through to Achaia, the brethren having encouraged, wrote to the disciples to receive him: who having arrived, profited much them having believed through grace:
28	For he mightily refuted the Jews publicly, shewing by the writings Jesus to be Christ.