1	And it was, as we were conducted forth, torn asunder from them, having run straight forward, we came to Coos, and in continuation to Rhodes, and thence to Patara:
2	And having found a ship passing over to Phenicia, having embarked, we were conducted forth.
3	And having been shown Cyprus, and left it at the left hand, we sailed to Syria, and were conveyed to Tyre: for thither was the ship discharging the lading.
4	And having found disciples, we remained there seven days: who said to Paul through the Spirit, not to go up to Jerusalem.
5	And it was when we accomplished the days, having come out we went; all sending us forward, with wives and children, even to without the city: and having placed the knees upon the seashore, we prayed.
6	And having greeted one another, we embarked in the ship; and these returned to their own.
7	And we having finished the voyage from Tyre, arrived at Ptolemais, and having greeted the brethren, we remained one day with them.
8	And the morrow, they about Paul having come out, came to Cesarea: and having come to Philip’s house, bearer of good news, being of the seven, we remained with him.
9	And to him were four daughters, virgins, prophesying.
10	And we remaining many days, a certain prophet came down from Judea, by name Agabus.
11	And having come to us, and lifted up Paul’s girdle, and bound his hands and feet, he said, Thus says the Holy Spirit, The man whose is this girdle, shall the Jews so bind in Jerusalem, and they shall deliver him into the hands of the nations.
12	And when we heard these things, both we, and the nations, besought him not to go up to Jerusalem.
13	And Paul answered, What do ye weeping and breaking my heart? for I not only to be bound, but to die at Jerusalem, have prepared for the name of the Lord Jesus.
14	And he not being persuaded, we were silent, saying, The will of the Lord be done.
15	And after these days, having packed up, we went up to Jerusalem.
16	And there came also with us of disciples from Cesarea, bringing with whom we should be received as guests to a certain Mnason of Cyprus, an ancient disciple.
17	And we having come to Jerusalem, the brethren received us gladly.
18	And the following day Paul went in with us to James; and all the elders were present.
19	And having greeted them, he recounted to each one what things God had done among the nations through his service.
20	And they having heard, honoured the Lord, and said to him, Thou seest, brother, how many ten thousands of Jews there are having believed: and all are zealous of the law:
21	And they were taught about thee, that thou teachest apostasy from Moses, all the Jews among the nations, saying, they are not to circumcise children, nor walk in the customs.
22	What is it therefore? the multitude must all come together: for they will hear that thou hast come.
23	Therefore do this which we say to thee: Four men are to us having a vow upon them;
24	Having taken these, be purified with them, and expend upon them, that they might shave the head: and all might know that what they are taught about thee is nothing; but thou proceedest in regular order, also thyself watching the law.
25	And of the nations having believed, we have written having judged them to keep nothing such, except to watch themselves from that sacrificed to idols, and blood, and strangulation, and harlotry.
26	Then Paul having taken the men, in the following day having been purified with them, went into the temple, announcing the completion of the days of purification, till an offering be brought for each one of them.
27	And when the seven days were about completed, the Jews from Asia, having seen him in the temple, embroiled all the crowd, and put hands upon them,
28	Crying out, Men, Israelites, help: This is the man, teaching all, everywhere, against the people, and the law, and this place: and yet also brought the Greeks into the temple, and has polluted this holy place.
29	(For they had seen before with him in the city Trophimus the Ephesian whom they thought that Paul had brought into the temple.)
30	And the whole city was moved, and there was a concourse of the people: and having taken up Paul, they drew him out of the temple: and quickly the doors were shut.
31	And seeking to kill him, a rumor went up to the captain of a thousand of the band, that the whole of Jerusalem had been embroiled.
32	Who having taken out of it the soldiers and centurions, he ran down to them: and they having seen the captain of a thousand and the soldiers, ceased striking Paul.
33	Then the captain of a thousand, having drawn near, took him, and commanded to be bound with two chains; and inquired who he might be, and what he had done.
34	And other cried what other in the crowd: and not being able to know certainly for the uproar, he commanded him to be brought into the camp.
35	And when he was upon the steps, it happened, he was borne by the soldiers for the violence of the crowd.
36	For the multitude of the people followed, crying, Take him away.
37	And being about to be brought into the camp, Paul says to the captain of a thousand, Is it lawful for me to speak anything to thee? and he said, Hast thou knowledge in Greek?
38	Art not thou then the Egyptian, who before these days having risen up, and having brought into the desert four thousand men of murderers?
39	And Paul said, I am truly a man a Jew, a Tarsean of Cilicia, a citizen of no undistinguished city: and I beseech of thee to give way for me to speak to the people.
40	And having given way, Paul standing upon the steps, shook with the hand to the people. And being much silence, he spake in the Hebrew dialect, saying,