1	And Paul, having looked intently to the council, said, Men, brethren, I have lived as a citizen in all good conscience to God till this day.
2	And the chief priest Ananias commanded those standing by him to strike his month.
3	Then said Paul to him, God is about to strike thee, thou wall covered with dust: and sittest thou judging me according to law, and commanded me to be struck illegally?
4	And they standing by said, Revilest thou God’s chief priest?
5	And Paul said, I knew not, brethren, that he is chief priest: for it has been written, Thou shalt not speak evil of the ruler of thy people.
6	And Paul having known that one part is of the Sadducees, and the other of the Pharisees, cried in the council, Men, brethren, I am a Pharisee, son of a Pharisee: for the hope and rising up of the dead am I judged.
7	And he having spoken this, there was a dissension of the Pharisees and Sadducees: and the multitude was divided.
8	For truly the Sadducees say there is no rising up, neither messenger, nor spirit: and the Pharisees acknowledge both.
9	And there was a great cry: and the scribes of the Pharisees’ part, having risen, struggled with obstinacy, saying, We find nothing evil in this man: but if a spirit or messenger spake to him, we should not contend against God.
10	And there being much dissension, the captain of a thousand, having dreaded lest Paul be torn asunder by them, commanded the army, having gone down, to snatch him from the midst of them, and bring into the camp.
11	And the following night the Lord, having stood by him, said, Take courage, Paul: for as thou hast testified the things concerning me at Jerusalem, so must thou also testify at Rome.
12	And it being day, certain of the Jews having made a condition, anathematized themselves, saying, neither to eat or drink till they kill Paul.
13	And there were more than forty having made this conspiracy.
14	Who having come to the chief priests and elders, said, By an anathema, we anathematized ourselves, to taste of nothing till we kill Paul.
15	Now therefore do ye exhibit to the captain of a thousand, with the council, so that to-morrow he might bring him down to you, as about to examine more accurately the things concerning him: and we, before he draws near, are ready to kill him.
16	And Paul’s sister’s son having heard of the ambuscade, having approached, and come into the camp, announced to Paul.
17	And Paul having called one of the centurions, said, Bring this young man to the captain of a thousand; for he has something to announce to him.
18	Then truly having taken him, he brought to the captain of a thousand, and says, Paul, the bound, having called me, asked to bring this young man to thee, having something to say to thee.
19	The captain of a thousand, having taken his hand, and having withdrawn in private, inquired, What is it which thou hast to announce to me?
20	And he said, That the Jews agreed together to ask thee, so that to-morrow thou mightest bring down Paul to the council, as about to inquire something more accurately about him.
21	Therefore thou shouldest not be persuaded by them: for more than forty men of them lie in wait for him, who anathematized themselves, neither to eat or drink till they should kill him: and now are they prepared, expecting a promise from thee.
22	Truly then the captain of a thousand discharged the young man, having enjoined him, Tell none that thou hast shown these things to me.
23	And having called two certain of the centurions, he said, Prepare two hundred soldiers, so that they go to Cesarea, and seventy horsemen, and two hundred having held spears in the right hand, at the third hour of the night;
24	And to bring forward cattle to set Paul upon, that they might carry through safely to Felix the leader.
25	Having written a letter containing this type.
26	Claudius Lysias to the most excellent leader Felix, health.
27	This man having been taken by the Jews, and being about to be killed by them: having stood with an army, I took him away, having learned that he is a Roman.
28	And wishing to know the cause for which they accused him, I brought him down to this council:
29	Whom I found accused of questions of their law, and having no accusation worthy of death or of bonds.
30	And the plot about to be by the Jews, having been made known to me against the man, for this I sent to thee, having also commanded the accusers to say things against him to thee. Farewell.
31	Then truly the soldiers according to that appointed them, having taken up Paul, brought by night to Antipatris.
32	And the morrow; having suffered the horsemen to go with him, they returned to the camp:
33	Who having come into Cesarea and given up the letter to the leader, they also placed Paul before him.
34	And the leader having read, and asked of what province he is, and having understood from Cilicia;
35	I will hearken to thee, he said, when also thine accusers should be present. And he commanded him to be watched in Herod’s pretorium.