1	And after five days the chief priest Ananias came down with the elders, and a certain orator, Tertullus, who exhibited to the leader against Paul.
2	And he having been called, Tertullus began to accuse, saying,
3	Attaining much peace by thee, and good actions being to this nation by thy foresight altogether and everywhere, we accept, most excellent Felix, with all thankfulness.
4	And that I hinder thee no more, I beseech thee to hear us concisely by thy clemency.
5	For having found this man a scourge, and moving sedition to all Jews in the habitable globe, and standing in the first rank of the sect of Nazarites:
6	And who attempted to profane the temple: whom we also seized, and wished to judge according to our law.
7	And Lysias the captain of a thousand, having come with much force, carried away out of our hands,
8	Having commanded his accusers to come to thee: by which thou thyself shalt be able, having examined, to know of all these of which we accuse him.
9	And the Jews also agreed, saying, these things hold so.
10	And Paul answered, the leader having nodded to him to speak, Knowing from many years thee being judge to this nation, more cheerfully do I justify things concerning myself:
11	Thou being able to know that not more than twelve days are to me from which I went up, going to worship in Jerusalem.
12	And neither in the temple found they me discussing with any, or making a revolt of the crowd, neither in synagogues, nor in the city:
13	Nor can they bring me forward for things they now accuse me.
14	And this I confess to thee, that according to the way which they call a sect, so serve I the God of the fathers, believing all things written in the law and the prophets:
15	Having hope to God, which they themselves also admit, a rising from the dead about to be, both of just and unjust.
16	And in this I myself attend carefully, to have a conscience unhurt towards God and men always.
17	And after many years I was present, going to do alms to my nation, and offerings.
18	In which they found me purified in the temple, not with the crowd, nor with uproar, and certain Jews from Asia.
19	Who ought to be present to thee, and accuse, if they have anything against me.
20	Or let these themselves say, if they found any injustice in me, I having stood before the council,
21	Or of this one voice, which I cried standing with them, That of the rising up of the dead I am judged this day by you.
22	And having heard these, Felix deferred them, knowing more accurately the things of the way, having said, When Lysias captain of a thousand shall come down, I will examine narrowly things concerning you.
23	And having appointed a centurion to keep Paul, and to have a setting at liberty, and to hinder none of his own to serve or come to him.
24	And after certain days, Felix, having been present with Drusilla his wife, being a Jewess, sent for Paul and heard him of the faith in Christ.
25	And he discoursing of justice, and temperance, and judgment about to be, Felix being terrified, answered, Having now, go; having taken time, I will recall thee.
26	And at the same time also hoping that money should be given him by Paul, so that he might loose him: wherefore also sending for him more frequently, he conversed with him.
27	And two years completed, Felix took Porcius Festus, a successor: and wishing to render a favor to the Jews, Felix left Paul bound.