1	And Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of prayer, the ninth.
2	And a certain man, being lame from his mother’s womb, was carried, whom they set in the day at the door of the temple called Beautiful, to ask alms from those going into the temple;
3	Who having seen Peter and John about going into the temple asked to receive alms.
4	And Peter, having looked intently upon him with John, said, Look upon us.
5	And he fixed his attention upon them, expecting to receive something of them.
6	And Peter said, Silver and gold are not to me; but what I have, this I give thee: In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarite, arise and walk.
7	And having taken him by the right hand, he raised: and immediately his feet and ankles were rendered firm.
8	And springing forth he stood, and walked, and entered with them into the temple, walking, and springing, and praising God.
9	And all the people saw him walking and praising God:
10	And they knew him, that this was he sitting for alms at the Beautiful gate of the temple: and they were filled with wonder and amazement at that having happened to him.
11	And the lame healed holding Peter and John, all the people ran to them in the porch called Solomon’s, much amazed.
12	And Peter, having seen, answered to the people, men, Israelites, why wonder ye at this? or why look ye intently at us, as by our own power or devotion having made him to walk?
13	The God of Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, God of our fathers, has honoured his child Jesus; whom ye have delivered up, and denied him before the face of Pilate, he having judged to loose.
14	And ye denied the Holy and Just, and demanded a man, a murderer, to be yielded to you.
15	And ye killed the Author of life, whom God raised from the dead; of whom we are witnesses.
16	And by faith of his name, this, whom ye see and know, his name made firm, and faith which by him, gave him this completeness before you all.
17	And now, brethren, I know that ye did in ignorance, as also your rulers.
18	But God, announced these things beforehand by the mouth of all his prophets, for Christ to suffer, he so completed.
19	Therefore repent, and return, for your sins to be wiped out, so that times of refreshment might come from the face of the Lord;
20	And he send Jesus Christ, before proclaimed to you,
21	Whom heaven must truly receive till time of restoration of all which God spake by the mouth of all his holy prophets from forever.
22	For Moses truly said to the fathers, That a prophet shall the Lord your God raise up to you from your brethren, like me; him shall ye hear according to all whatever he speak to you.
23	And it shall be, whoever hears not that prophet, shall be destroyed from the people.
24	And all the prophets from Samuel, and those in order, as many as spake, also announced beforehand these days.
25	Ye are sons of the prophets, and of the covenant which God set with our fathers, saying to Abraham, And in thy seed shall all families of earth be praised.
26	To you first God, having raised up his child Jesus, sent him praising you, in turning away each from your wickedness.