1	And the chief priest said, Hold these things thus?
2	And he said, Men, brethren, and fathers, hear ye: The God of glory was sent to our father Abraham, being in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Charran,
3	And he said to him, Come out of thy land, and from thy kindred, and come into the land which I shall show thee.
4	Then having come out of the land of the Chaldeans, he dwelt in Charran: and thence, after his father died, he transplanted him into this land, in which ye now dwell.
5	And he gave him none inheritance in it, not a step of the foot: and he promised to give it him for a possession, and to his seed after him, there being no child to him.
6	And God spake thus, That his seed shall be dwelling in a strange land; and it shall subjugate them, and inflict evil four hundred years.
7	And the nation which they serve will I judge, said God: and after these shall they go out, and shall serve me in this place.
8	And he gave him the covenant of circumcision: and so he begat Isaac, and circumcised him the eighth day; and Isaac Jacob; and Jacob the twelve patriarchs.
9	And the patriarchs having been jealous, sold Joseph into Egypt: but God was with him,
10	And took him out of all his pressures, and gave him grace and wisdom before Pharaoh king of Egypt; and set him leader over Egypt and his whole house.
11	And a famine came upon the whole land of Egypt and Chanaan, and great pressure: and our fathers found no food.
12	And Jacob having beard wheat being in Egypt, sent our fathers first.
13	And in the second time, Joseph was made known to his brethren; and Joseph’s race was manifest to Pharaoh.
14	And Joseph having sent, called for his father Jacob, and all his kindred, in seventy-five souls.
15	And Jacob went down to Egypt, and died, he, and our fathers,
16	And they transported him to Sychem and put him in the tomb which Abraham was satisfied with for a price of silver from the sons of Emmor of Sychem.
17	And as the time of the solemn promise drew near, which God aware to Abraham, the people increased and were multiplied in Egypt.
18	Till another king arose, which knew not Joseph.
19	He having deceived our race by sophistry, inflicted evil upon our fathers, to make their babes cast out, that they should not breed.
20	In which time Moses was born, and he was shrewd to God, who was nourished up three months in his father’s house:
21	And he having been exposed, Pharaoh’s daughter took him up, and nourished him for a son to herself.
22	And Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and was powerful in words and in works.
23	And when the time of forty years was completed to him, it came up upon his heart to take a view of his brethren the sons of Israel.
24	And having seen a certain one injured, he defended, and did vengeance for him harassed, having struck the Egyptian,
25	And he supposed his brethren to understand that God by his hand gives them salvation: and they understood not.
26	And the following day he was seen to those contending, and he compelled them to peace, having said, Men, ye are brethren; wherefore injure ye one another?
27	And he injuring the neighbor repulsed him, having said, Who set thee a ruler and judge over us?
28	Wilt thou not kill me, as thou didst kill the Egyptian yesterday?
29	And Moses fled at this word, and he was a sojourner in the land of Madian, where he begat two sons.
30	And forty years completed, a messenger of the Lord was seen to him in the desert of mount Sina, in a flame of fire in a bramble.
31	And Moses having seen, wondered at the sight: and he coming near to observe attentively, the voice of the Lord was to him,
32	I the God of thy fathers, God of Abraham, and God of Isaac, and God of Jacob. And Moses being trembling, dared not observe attentively.
33	And the Lord said to him, Loose the shoes of thy feet: for the place in which thou standest is holy land.
34	Having seen, I saw the injury of my people in Egypt, and I heard their groaning, and came down to take them away. And now came, I will send thee into Egypt.
35	This Moses which they denied, having said, Who set thee ruler and judge? this, God sent, a ruler and redeemer by the hand of the messenger having been seen to him in the bramble.
36	He brought them out, having done wonders and sign in the land of Egypt, and in the Red sea, and in the desert forty years.
37	This is Moses, having said to the sons of Israel, A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up to you of your brethren, like me; him shall ye hear.
38	This is he having been in the church in the desert with the messenger speaking to him in Mount Sina, and our fathers: who received the living oracles to give to us:
39	To whom our fathers would not be obedient, but rejected, and in their hearts they turned back into Egypt,
40	Having said to Aaron, Make us gods who shall go before us: for this Moses, who brought us out of the land of Egypt, we know not what has been to him.
41	And they made a calf in those days, and brought up a sacrifice to the image, and rejoiced in the works of their hands.
42	And God turned, and delivered them up to serve the army of heaven; as it has been written in the book of the prophets, Slain victims and sacrifices brought ye not to me forty years in the desert, O house of Israel,
43	And ye took up the tent of Moloch, and the star of your god Remphan, types which ye made to worship them: and I will transplant you beyond Babylon.
44	The tent of testimony was with our fathers in the desert, as he speaking set to Moses, to make it according to the type which he had seen.
45	Which also our fathers having received brought in with Jesus in the possession of nations, which God drove out from our fathers’ face, even to the days of David;
46	Who found grace before God, and asked to find a tent to the God of Jacob.
47	And Solomon built for himself a house.
48	But the Highest dwells not in temples made by hands; as says the prophet,
49	Heaven a throne to me, and earth the footstool of my feet: what house will ye build to me? says the Lord: or what the place of my rest?
50	Did not my hand make all these things?
51	Ye stiffnecked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye always resist the Holy Spirit: as your fathers, also you.
52	Which of the prophets did not your fathers drive out and they slew them announcing beforehand of the coming of the Just; of whom ye have now been traitors and murderers:
53	Who have received the law by the regulations of messengers, and ye watched not.
54	And having heard those, they were sawn through their hearts, and they gnashed the teeth upon him.
55	And being full of the Holy Spirit, having looked intently to heaven, he saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right hand of God,
56	And he said, Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of man standing at the right hand of God.
57	And having cried with a great voice, they held fast their ears, and rushed unanimously upon him,
58	And having cast out of the city, they stoned: and the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man called Saul.
59	And they stoned Stephen, calling upon, and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.
60	And having set the knees, he cried with a great voice, Lord, wouldest thou not set this sin to them. And having said this he was set to sleep.