1	The burden of Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite.
2	God is a rival, and the Lord is avenging. The Lord is avenging, and one who applies wrath. The Lord is avenging with his enemies, and he becomes angry with his adversaries.
3	The Lord is patient and great in strength, and those who are not clean, he makes innocent. The Lord is in a tempest, and his way is a whirlwind, and the clouds are dust at his feet.
4	He is the one who rebukes the sea, and who dries it up, and who leads all the rivers to the desert. Basan has been weakened, and also Carmel, and the flower of Lebanon has languished.
5	The mountains have trembled before him, and the hills have become desolate, and the earth has quaked before his face, both the world and all that dwells in it.
6	Who can stand firm before the face of his indignation? And who can continue against the fury of his wrath? His indignation has broken out like a fire, and the rocks have been dissolved before him.
7	The Lord is good, and a comforter in the day of tribulation, and he knows those who hope in him.
8	And in the flood that passes over, he brings to consummation the end of his place. And darkness shall pursue his adversaries.
9	What are you thinking up against the Lord? He will accomplish the consummation. There shall not rise up a double tribulation.
10	For just as thorns entwine one another, so also, while they are feasting and drinking together, they will be consumed like stubble that is completely dry.
11	Out of you will go forth one who thinks up evil against the Lord, dragging betrayals through his mind.
12	Thus says the Lord: If they had been perfect, and many of them so, yet still they would be pruned, and it will cross through them. I have afflicted you, and I shall afflict you no more.
13	And now I will shatter his rod from your back, and I will break open your bonds.
14	And the Lord will place a commandment over you; nothing more from your name will be sown. From the house of your God, I will order destroyed the graven image and the molten image. I will prepare your grave, because you are not honorable.
15	Behold, over the mountains, the feet of the Evangelizer and the Announcer of peace. Judah, celebrate your festivals and keep your vows. For Belial will never again pass through you; he has completely passed away.