1	Now these are the sons of the province, who ascended from the captivity, whom Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, had transferred to Babylon, and who were returned to Jerusalem and to Judah, each one to his own city.
2	They arrived with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:
3	The sons of Parosh, two thousand one hundred seventy-two.
4	The sons of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy-two.
5	The sons of Arah, seven hundred seventy-five.
6	The sons of Pahath-moab, of the sons of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred twelve.
7	The sons of Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four.
8	The sons of Zattu, nine hundred forty-five.
9	The sons of Zaccai, seven hundred sixty.
10	The sons of Bani, six hundred forty-two.
11	The sons of Bebai, six hundred twenty-three.
12	The sons of Azgad, one thousand two hundred twenty-two.
13	The sons of Adonikam, six hundred sixty-six.
14	The sons of Bigvai, two thousand fifty-six.
15	The sons of Adin, four hundred fifty-four.
16	The sons of Ater, who were of Hezekiah, ninety-eight.
17	The sons of Bezai, three hundred twenty-three.
18	The sons of Jorah, one hundred twelve.
19	The sons of Hashum, two hundred twenty-three.
20	The sons of Gibbar, ninety-five.
21	The sons of Bethlehem, one hundred twenty-three.
22	The men of Netophah, fifty-six.
23	The men of Anathoth, one hundred twenty-eight.
24	The sons of Azmaveth, forty-two.
25	The sons of Kiriatharim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty-three.
26	The sons of Ramah and Geba, six hundred twenty-one.
27	The men of Michmas, one hundred twenty-two.
28	The men of Bethel and Ai, two hundred twenty-three.
29	The sons of Nebo, fifty-two.
30	The sons of Magbish, one hundred fifty-six.
31	The sons of the other Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-five.
32	The sons of Harim, three hundred twenty.
33	The sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty-five.
34	The sons of Jericho, three hundred forty-five.
35	The sons of Senaah, three thousand six hundred thirty.
36	The priests: the sons of Jedaiah of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy-three.
37	The sons of Immer, one thousand fifty-two.
38	The sons of Pashhur, one thousand two hundred forty-seven.
39	The sons of Harim, one thousand seventeen.
40	The Levites: the sons of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the sons of Hodaviah, seventy-four.
41	The singing men: the sons of Asaph, one hundred twenty-eight.
42	The sons of the gatekeepers: the sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of Akkub, the sons of Hatita, the sons of Shobai: altogether one hundred thirty-nine.
43	The temple servants: the sons of Ziha, the sons of Hasupha, the sons of Tabbaoth,
44	the sons of Keros, the sons of Siaha, the sons of Padon,
45	the sons of Lebanah, the sons of Hagabah, the sons of Akkub,
46	the sons of Hagab, the sons of Shamlai, the sons of Hanan,
47	the sons of Giddel, the sons of Gahar, the sons of Reaiah,
48	the sons of Rezin, the sons of Nekoda, the sons of Gazzam,
49	the sons of Uzza, the sons of Paseah, the sons of Besai,
50	the sons of Asnah, the sons of Meunim, the sons of Nephusim,
51	the sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Harhur,
52	the sons of Bazluth, the sons of Mehida, the sons of Harsha,
53	the sons of Barkos, the sons of Sisera, the sons of Temah,
54	the sons of Neziah, the sons of Hatipha;
55	the sons of the servants of Solomon, the sons of Sotai, the sons of Sophereth, the sons of Peruda,
56	the sons of Jaalah, the sons of Darkon, the sons of Giddel,
57	the sons of Shephatiah, the sons of Hattil, the sons of Pochereth, who were of Hazzebaim, the sons of Ami:
58	all the temple servants and the sons of the servants of Solomon, three hundred ninety-two.
59	And these were the ones who ascended from Telmelah, Telharsha, Cherub, and Addan, and Immer. And they were not able to indicate the house of their fathers and their offspring, whether they were of Israel:
60	The sons of Delaiah, the sons of Tobiah, the sons of Nekoda, six hundred fifty-two.
61	And from the sons of the priests: the sons of Hobaiah, the sons of Hakkoz, the sons of Barzillai, who took a wife from the daughters of Barzillai, the Gileadite, and who were called by their name.
62	These sought the writing of their genealogy, and they did not find it, and so they were cast out of the priesthood.
63	And the cupbearer said to them that they should not eat from the Holy of Holies, until there would arise a priest, learned and perfect.
64	The entire multitude joined together was forty-two thousand three hundred sixty,
65	not including their men and women servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven. And among these were singing men and singing women, two hundred.
66	Their horses were seven hundred thirty-six; their mules were two hundred forty-five;
67	their camels were four hundred thirty-five; their donkeys were six thousand seven hundred twenty.
68	And some of the leaders among the fathers, when they entered into the temple of the Lord, which is in Jerusalem, freely offered some of these to the house of God, in order to construct it in its location.
69	They gave to the expenses of the work in accord with their ability: sixty-one thousand gold coins, five thousand silver minas, and one hundred priestly vestments.
70	Therefore, the priests and the Levites, and some of the people, and the singing men, and the gatekeepers, and the temple servants lived in their cities, and all of Israel lived in their cities.