1	A soft answer turneth away wrath; But a grievous word stirreth up anger.
2	The tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright; But the mouth of fools poureth out foolishness.
3	The eyes of the LORD are in every place, Keeping watch upon the evil and the good.
4	A soothing tongue is a tree of life; But perverseness therein is a wound to the spirit.
5	A fool despiseth his father’s correction; But he that regardeth reproof is prudent.
6	In the house of the righteous is much treasure; But in the revenues of the wicked is trouble.
7	The lips of the wise disperse knowledge; But the heart of the foolish is not stedfast.
8	The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD; But the prayer of the upright is His delight.
9	The way of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD; But He loveth him that followeth after righteousness.
10	There is grievous correction for him that forsaketh the way; And he that hateth reproof shall die.
11	The nether-world and Destruction are before the LORD; How much more then the hearts of the children of men!
12	A scorner loveth not to be reproved; He will not go unto the wise.
13	A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance; But by sorrow of heart the spirit is broken.
14	The heart of him that hath discernment seeketh knowledge; But the mouth of fools feedeth on folly.
15	All the days of the poor are evil; But he that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast.
16	Better is little with the fear of the LORD, Than great treasure and turmoil therewith.
17	Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, Than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.
18	A wrathful man stirreth up discord; But he that is slow to anger appeaseth strife.
19	The way of the sluggard is as though hedged by thorns; But the path of the upright is even.
20	A wise son maketh a glad father; But a foolish man despiseth his mother.
21	Folly is joy to him that lacketh understanding; But a man of discernment walketh straightforwards.
22	For want of counsel purposes are frustrated; But in the multitude of counsellors they are established.
23	A man hath joy in the answer of his mouth; And a word in due season, how good is it!
24	The path of life goeth upward for the wise, that he may depart from the nether-world beneath.
25	The LORD will pluck up the house of the proud; But He will establish the border of the widow.
26	The thoughts of wickedness are an abomination to the LORD; But words of pleasantness are pure.
27	He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; But he that hateth gifts shall live.
28	The heart of the righteous studieth to answer; But the mouth of the wicked poureth out evil things.
29	The LORD is far from the wicked; But He heareth the prayer of the righteous.
30	The light of the eyes rejoiceth the heart; And a good report maketh the bones fat.
31	The ear that hearkeneth to the reproof of life abideth among the wise.
32	He that refuseth correction despiseth his own soul; But he that hearkeneth to reproof getteth understanding.
33	The fear of the LORD is the instruction of wisdom; And before honour goeth humility.