1	He that separateth himself seeketh his own desire, And snarlest against all sound wisdom.
2	A fool hath no delight in understanding, But only that his heart may lay itself bare.
3	When the wicked cometh, there cometh also contempt, And with ignominy reproach.
4	The words of a man’s mouth are as deep waters; A flowing brook, a fountain of wisdom.
5	It is not good to respect the person of the wicked, So as to turn aside the righteous in judgment.
6	A fool’s lips enter into contention, And his mouth calleth for strokes.
7	A fool’s mouth is his ruin, And his lips are the snare of his soul.
8	The words of a whisperer are as dainty morsels, And they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.
9	Even one that is slack in his work Is brother to him that is a destroyer.
10	The name of the LORD is a strong tower: The righteous runneth into it, and is set up on high.
11	The rich man’s wealth is his strong city, And as a high wall in his own conceit.
12	Before destruction the heart of a man is haughty, And before honour goeth humility.
13	He that giveth answer before he heareth, It is folly and confusion unto him.
14	The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; But a broken spirit who can bear?
15	The heart of the prudent getteth knowledge; And the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge.
16	A man’s gift maketh room for him, And bringeth him before great men.
17	He that pleadeth his cause first seemeth just; But his neighbour cometh and searcheth him out.
18	The lot causeth strife to cease, And parteth asunder the contentious.
19	A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city; And their contentions are like the bars of a castle.
20	A man’s belly shall be filled with the fruit of his mouth; With the increase of his lips shall he be satisfied.
21	Death and life are in the power of the tongue; And they that indulge it shall eat the fruit thereof.
22	Whoso findeth a wife findeth a great good, And obtaineth favour of the LORD.
23	The poor useth entreaties; But the rich answereth impudently.
24	There are friends that one hath to his own hurt; But there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother.