1	Masters, give to your servants that which is just and equal; knowing that you also have a Master in heaven.
2	Continue in prayer, and watch in the same with thanksgiving;
3	With praying also for us, that God would open to us a door of utterance, to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bonds:
4	That I may make it manifest, as I ought to speak.
5	Walk in wisdom toward them that are without, redeeming the time.
6	Let your speech be always with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer every man.
7	All my state shall Tychicus declare to you, who is a beloved brother, and a faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord:
8	Whom I have sent to you for the same purpose, that he might know your estate, and comfort your hearts;
9	With Onesimus, a faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They shall make known to you all things which are done here.
10	Aristarchus my fellow prisoner salutes you, and Marcus, sister’s son to Barnabas, (touching whom you received commandments: if he come to you, receive him;)
11	And Jesus, which is called Justus, who are of the circumcision. These only are my fellow workers to the kingdom of God, which have been a comfort to me.
12	Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, salutes you, always laboring fervently for you in prayers, that you may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God.
13	For I bear him record, that he has a great zeal for you, and them that are in Laodicea, and them in Hierapolis.
14	Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas, greet you.
15	Salute the brothers which are in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the church which is in his house.
16	And when this letter is read among you, cause that it be read also in the church of the Laodiceans; and that you likewise read the letter from Laodicea.
17	And say to Archippus, Take heed to the ministry which you have received in the Lord, that you fulfill it.
18	The salutation by the hand of me Paul. Remember my bonds. Grace be with you. Amen.