1	And in the eighteenth year to king Jeroboam, Abijah will reign over Judah.
2	And three years he reigned in Jerusalem. And the name of his mother, Michaiah, daughter of Uriel from Gibeah. And war was between Abijah and Jeroboam.
3	And Abijah will bind on the battle with the strength of the strong ones of war, four hundred thousand chosen men: and Jeroboam arranged the battle with him with eight hundred thousand, each chosen, strong of power.
4	And Abijah will rise up upon mount Zemaraim, which is in mount Ephraim, and he will say, Hear me, Jeroboam, and all Israel;
5	Is it not to you to know that Jehovah God of Israel gave the kingdom to David over Israel forever, to him and to his sons by a covenant of salt?
6	And Jeroboam son of Nebat servant of Solomon son of David, will rise up and will rebel against his lord.
7	And vain men will gather together to him, sons of Belial; and they will strengthen themselves against Rehoboam son of Solomon; and Rehoboam being young and tender of heart, and he was not strong before them.
8	And now ye saying to be strengthened before the kingdom of Jehovah in the hand of the sons of David; and ye a great multitude, and with you calves of gold which Jeroboam made for you for gods.
9	Did ye not thrust out the priests of Jehovah, the sons of Aaron and the Levites? and ye will make to you priests according to the peoples of the lands, every one coming to fill his hand with a bullock, son of the cow, and seven rams; and he was priest to no God.
10	And we, Jehovah is our God, and we forsook him not; and the priests serving to Jehovah, the sons of Aaron, and the Levites in the work:
11	And burning to Jehovah the burnt-offering in the morning, in the morning, and in the evening, in the evening, and incense of spices, and the arrangement of bread upon the pure table; and the chandelier of gold and its lamps to burn in the evening, in the evening: for we watch the watches of Jehovah our God; and ye forsook him.
12	And behold, with us God for head, and his priests and trumpets of loud noise to cry against you. O ye sons of Israel, ye shall not wage war with Jehovah God of your fathers, for ye shall not prosper.
13	And Jeroboam turned about an ambush to come from behind them: and they will be before Judah, and the ambush from behind them.
14	And Judah will turn, and behold, to them the war before and behind: and they will cry out to Jehovah and the priests trumpeting with the trumpets.
15	And the men of Judah will shout: and it will be in the shouting of the men of Judah, and God smote Jeroboam and all Israel before Abijah and Judah.
16	And the sons of Israel will flee from the face of Judah: and God will give them into their hand.
17	And Abijah and his people will strike upon them a great blow: and there will fall wounded from Israel five hundred thousand chosen men.
18	And the sons of Israel will be subdued in that time, and the sons of Judah will be strong, for they relied upon Jehovah the God of their fathers.
19	And Abijah will pursue after Jeroboam, and he will take cities from him, the house of God and its daughters, and Jeshanah and its daughters, and Ephraim and its daughters.
20	And Jeroboam retained no more strength in the days of Abijah: and Jehovah will smite him and he will die.
21	And Abijah will be strengthened, and he will take to him fourteen wives, and he will beget twenty and two sons, and sixteen daughters.
22	And the rest of the words of Abijah, and his ways, and his words, being written in the commentary of the prophet Iddo.