1	In the thirty and sixth year to the kingdom of Asa, Baasha king of Israel came up against Judah, and he will build Ramah, not to give him coming out and going in to Asa, king of Judah.
2	And Asa will bring forth silver and gold from the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and the house of the king, and he will send to the son of Hadad king of Aram, dwelling in Darmesek, saying,
3	A covenant between me and between thee, and between my father and between thy father: behold, I sent to thee silver and gold; go break thy covenant with Baasha king of Israel, and he will go up from me.
4	And the son of Hadad will hear to king Asa, and he will send chiefs of the armies which were with him against the cities of Israel; and they will strike Ijon and Dan and Abel-Maim, and all the stores of the cities of Naphtali.
5	And it will be when Baasha heard, and he will desist from building Ramah, and cause his works to cease.
6	And Asa the king took all Judah; and they will lift up the stones of Ramah, and its woods which Baasha built, and he will build with it Geba and Mizpeh.
7	And in that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah, and he will say to him, In thy relying upon the king of Aram, and thou didst not rely upon Jehovah thy God, for this the power of the king of Aram escaped from thy hand.
8	Were not the Cushites and the Lubims for an army for multitude, for chariots, and for horsemen to a great multitude? and in thy relying upon Jehovah he gave them into thy hand.
9	For Jehovah, his eyes run to and fro in all the earth to strengthen himself with the perfected heart of them to him. Thou wert foolish for this that from now there is wars with thee.
10	And Asa will be indignant to the seer, and he will give him to the house of the stocks, for he was in anger with him for this And Asa will oppress from the people in that time.
11	And behold, the words of Am, the first and the last, behold them written upon the book of the kings to Judah and to Israel.
12	And Asa in the thirty and ninth year to his kingdom will be diseased in his feet, his disease even to above: and also in his disease he sought not Jehovah but in physicians.
13	And Asa will lie down with his fathers, and he will die in the year forty and one to his kingdom.
14	And they will bury him in his graves which he digged for himself in the city of David, and they will lay him down upon the bed which was filled with spices and sorts seasoned with aromatics of work. And they will burn for him a great burning, even to vehemence.