1	And it will be after this, the sons of Moab and the sons of Ammon came, and with them from the Ammonites against Jehoshaphat for war.
2	And they will come and announce to Jehoshaphat, saying, A great multitude coming against thee from beyond the sea from Aram in Hazazon-Tamar; this the fountain of the kid.
3	And Jehoshaphat will fear, and he will give his face to seek to Jehovah, and he will call a fast for all Judah.
4	And Judah will gather together to seek from Jehovah; also from all the cities of Judah they came to seek Jehovah.
5	And Jehoshaphat will stand in the convocation of Judah and Jerusalem, in the house of Jehovah before the new enclosure.
6	And he will say, O Jehovah God of our fathers, art thou not he the God in the heavens? and thou art ruling over all the kingdoms of the nations? and in thine hand power and strength, and none to stand with thee?
7	Art thou not our God? Thou didst dispossess the inhabitants of this land from before thy people Israel, and thou wilt give it to the seed of Abraham thy beloved forever.
8	And they will dwell in it, and build to thee in it a holy place to thy name, saying,
9	If evil shall come upon us, the sword, judgment, and death and famine, we shall stand before this house and before thee, for thy name is upon this house, and we will cry to thee from our straits, and thou wilt hear, and thou wilt save.
10	And now behold the sons of Ammon and Moab and mount Seir, which thou gavest not to Israel to come against them in their coming out of the land of Egypt, for they turned away from them and destroyed them not;
11	And behold them rewarding upon us to come to drive us out from thy possession which thou causedst us to possess.
12	O our God, wilt thou not judge against them? for no power in us before this great multitude coming against us; and we shall not know what we shall do: for our eyes are upon thee.
13	And all Judah standing before Jehovah, also their little ones, their wives and their sons.
14	And Jahaziel, son of Zechariah, son of Benaiah, son of Jeiel, son of Mattaniah the Levite from the sons of Asaph, upon him was the spirit of Jehovah in the midst of the convocation.
15	And he will say, Attend all Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem, and thou, king Jehoshaphat. Thus said Jehovah to you, Ye shall not fear, and ye shall not be terrified from the face of this great multitude; for not to you the battle but to God.
16	To-morrow go ye down against them: behold them coming up in the ascent of brightness; and ye found them in the end of the valley before the desert of Jeruel.
17	Not to you to war in this: set yourselves, stand ye, and see the salvation of Jehovah with you, O Judah and Jerusalem. Ye shall not fear, and ye shall not be terrified; to-morrow go ye forth before them, and Jehovah with you.
18	And Jehoshaphat will bow down the face to the earth: and all Judah and those inhabiting Jerusalem fell before Jehovah to worship to Jehovah.
19	And the Levites from the sons of the Kohathites, and from the sons of the Korhites, will rise up to praise to Jehovah the God of Israel with a great voice to above.
20	And they will rise early in the morning and go forth to the desert of Tekoa: and in their going forth Jehoshaphat stood, and he will say, Hear me, O Judah, and ye inhabiting Jerusalem; Believe in Jehovah your God and ye shall be firm; believe in his prophets and prosper.
21	And he will counsel to the people, and he will set up those singing to Jehovah, and those praising to the ornaments of holiness, in their going out before the strong, and saying, Confess ye to Jehovah; his mercy is forever.
22	And in the time they began in rejoicing and praising, Jehovah gave ambushes against the sons of Ammon, Moab, and mount Seir, coming against Judah; and they will be smitten.
23	For the sons of Ammon and Moab will stand up against those inhabiting mount Seir to utterly destroy and to cut off: and in their finishing upon those inhabiting Seir they helped each against his neighbor for destruction.
24	And Judah came upon the watchtower to the desert, and they will look towards the multitude, and behold them corpses falling to the earth, and none escaping.
25	And Jehoshaphat will come, and his people, to plunder their spoil, and they will find among them for multitude and possession, and corpses, and vessels of desires, and they will take away for themselves to not lifting up: and they will be three days plundering the spoil, for it was much.
26	And in the fourth day they were convoked together to the valley of praise; for there they praised Jehovah: for this, they called the name of that place, The valley of praise, even to this day.
27	And they will turn back every man of Judah and Jerusalem, and Jehoshaphat at their head, to turn back to Jerusalem with joy; for Jehovah gladdened them from their enemies.
28	And they will come to Jerusalem with lyres and with harps and with trumpets to the house of Jehovah.
29	And the terror of God will be upon all the kingdoms of the lands in their hearing that Jehovah warred with the enemies of Israel.
30	And the kingdom of Jehoshaphat will rest: and God will give rest to him from round about.
31	And Jehoshaphat will reign over Judah: the son of thirty and five years in his reigning, and twenty and five years he reigned in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name Azubah, daughter of Shilhi.
32	And he will go in the way of his father Asa, and he removed not from it, doing the straight in the eyes of Jehovah.
33	Only the heights were not removed: and yet the people prepared not their heart to the God of their fathers.
34	And the rest of the words of Jehoshaphat, the first and the last, behold them written in the words of Jehu son of Hanani, who was made to go up upon the book of the kings of Israel.
35	And after this Jehoshaphat king of Judah joined himself with Ahaziah king of Israel, he being unjust to do.
36	And he will join himself with him to make ships to go to Tarshish: and they will make the ships in Ezion-Geber.
37	And Eliezer son of Dodavah of Mareshah will prophesy against Jehoshaphat, saying, In thy joining thyself with Ahaziab, Jehovah broke thy works And the ships will be broken, and be hindered to go to Tarshish.