1	And Jehoshaphat will lie down with his fathers, and be buried with his fathers in the city of David. And Jehoram his son will reign in his stead.
2	And to him brethren, sons of Jehoshaphat, Azariah, and Jehiel, and Zechariah, and Azariah, and Michael, and Shephatiah: all these sons of Jehoshaphat king of Israel.
3	And their father will give to them many gifts to silver and to gold, and to precious things, with fortified cities in Judah: and he gave the kingdom to Jehoram, for he was the first-born.
4	And Jehoram will rise up over the kingdom of his father, and he will strengthen himself, and he will kill all his brethren with the sword, and also from the chiefs of Israel.
5	The son of thirty and two years was Jehoram in his reigning, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem.
6	And he will go in the way of the kings of Israel as did the house of Ahab: for the daughter of Ahab was to him for wife: and he will do evil in the eyes of Jehovah.
7	And Jehovah would not destroy the house of David, for sake of the covenant which he cut out to David, and as he said to give to him a light and to his sons all the days.
8	In his days Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah, and they will cause a king to reign over them.
9	And Jehoram will pass over with his chiefs, and all the chariots with him: and he will be rising by night, and he will strike Edom surrounding to him, and the chiefs of the chariots.
10	And Edom will revolt from under the hand of Judah, even to this day. Then Libnah will revolt in that time from under his hand, for he forsook Jehovah the God of his fathers.
11	Also he made heights in the mountains of Judah, and he will cause those inhabiting Jerusalem to commit fornication, and he will seduce Judah.
12	And a writing will come to him from Elijah the prophet, saying, Thus said Jehovah God of David thy father, Because that thou didst not go in the ways of Jehoshaphat thy father, and in the ways of Asa king of Judah,
13	And thou wilt go in the way of the kings of Israel, and thou wilt cause Judah to commit fornication, and those inhabiting Jerusalem, according to the fornications of the house of Ahab, and also thou didst kill thy brethren of the house of thy father, being good above thee.
14	Behold, Jehovah smote a great stroke upon thy people, and upon thy sons, and upon thy wives, and upon all thy possessions:
15	And thou in great sicknesses in disease of thy bowels, till thy bowels shall come forth from the sickness days upon days.
16	And Jehovah will rouse up against Jehoram the spirit of the rovers and the Arabians which were upon the hand of the Cushitea.
17	And they will come up into Judah and rend it, and carry away captive all the possessions being found at the king’s house, and also his sons and his wives; and there was not left to him a son except Jehoahaz the young of his sons.
18	And after all this Jehovah smote him in his bowels with a sickness for no healing.
19	And it will be to days from days, and according to the time of the going forth of the end to the days the second time, his bowels will go forth with his sickness: and he will die with evil sicknesses. And his people made not to him a burning as the burning of his fathers.
20	The son of thirty and two was he in his reigning, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem; and he will go without desire: and they will bury him in the city of David, and not in the graves of the kings.