1	The son of twenty and five years reigned Amaziah, and twenty and nine years reigned he in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name Jehoaddan from Jerusalem.
2	And he will do the straight in the eyes of Jehovah, only not with a whole heart.
3	And it will be when the kingdom was strengthened over him, and he will slay his servants striking the king his father.
4	And their sons he slew not, for as written in the law in the book of Moses where Jehovah commanded, saying, The fathers shall not die for the sons, and the sons shall not die for the fathers, for each shall die in his sin.
5	And Amaziah will gather Judah together, and set them up for the house of the fathers for chiefs of thousands, and for chiefs of hundreds, to all Judah and Benjamin: and he will review them from the son of twenty years and above, and he will find them three hundred thousand chosen going forth to war, holding spear and shield.
6	And he will hire from Israel a hundred thousand strong of power, with a hundred talents of silver.
7	And a man of God came to him, saying, O king, the army of Israel shall not go with thee; for Jehovah is not with Israel all the sons of Ephraim.
8	For if thou goest, to be strong for war: God will cause thee to falter before the enemy, for there is power with God to help and to cause to falter.
9	And Amaziah will say to the man of God, And what to do for the hundred talents of silver which I gave to the troop of Israel? And the man of God will say, There is to Jehovah to give to thee much above this.
10	And Amaziah will separate them for the troop which came to him from Ephraim to go to their place: and their anger will kindle greatly against Judah, and they will turn back to their place in the heat of anger.
11	And Amaziah strengthened himself, and he will lead out his people, and go to the valley of salt, and he will strike the sons of Seir, ten thousand.
12	And ten thousand living the sons of Judah carried away captive, and they will bring them to the head of the rock, and they will cast them down from the head of the rock, and they were rent asunder all of them.
13	And the sons of the troop which Amaziah turned back from going with him to war, and they will invade upon the cities of Judah from Shomeron and even to the house of the hollow, and he will strike of them three thousand, and they will plunder much plunder.
14	And it will be after Amaziah came from the smiting of the Edomites, and he will bring the gods of the sons of Seir, and he will set them up to him for gods, and worship before them, and burn incense to them.
15	And the anger of Jehovah will kindle against Amaziah, and he will send to him a prophet, and he will say to him, Wherefore soughtest thou the gods of the people who delivered not their people from thy hand?
16	And it will be in his speaking to him, and he will say to him, Did they give thee for counselor to the king? Desist; for thyself, wherefore shall they strike thee? And the prophet will desist, and say, I knew that God counseled to destroy thee, for thou didst this, and thou heardest not to my counsel.
17	And Amaziah king of Judah will take counsel, and will send to Joash son of Jehoahaz, son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, we will see faces.
18	And Joash king of Israel will send to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, The thorn-bush which was in Lebanon sent to the cedar which was in Lebanon, saying, Thou shalt give thy daughter to my son for wife: and a beast of the field that was in Lebanon will pass by and tread down the thorn-bush.
19	Thou saidst, Behold, thou didst strike Edom; and thy heart lifted thee up to boast: now dwell in thy house; wherefore wilt thou be stirred up in evil, and thou fallest, and Judah with thee?
20	And Amaziah heard not; for it was from God, so that he will give them into the hand, for they sought the gods of Edom.
21	And Joash king of Israel will go up; and they will see faces, he and Amaziah king of Judah, in the house of the sun which was to Judah.
22	And Judah will be smitten before Israel, and they will flee a man to his tent.
23	And Joash king of Israel seized Amaziah king of Judah, son of Joash, son of Jehoahaz, in the house of the sun; and he will bring him to Jerusalem, and he will break in upon the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim, even to the gate of turning, four hundred cubits.
24	And all the gold and the silver, and all the vessels being found in the house of God with Obed-Edom, and the treasures of the king’s house, and the sons of suretyship, and he will turn back to Shomeron.
25	And Amaziah son of Joash king of Judah will live after the death of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel, fifteen years.
26	And the rest of the words of Amaziah, the first and the last, behold, are they not written upon the book of the kings of Judah and Israel?
27	And from the time that Amaziah turned away from Jehovah and they will conspire against him a conspiracy in Jerusalem; and he will flee to Lachish: and they will send after him to Lachish, and they will kill him there.
28	And they will lift him up upon horses, and bury him with his fathers in the city of Judah.