1	The son of twenty years was Ahaz in his reigning, and sixteen years reigned he in Jerusalem: and he did not the straight in the eyes of Jehovah according to David his father.
2	And he will go in the ways of the kings of Israel, and also molten images made he to the Baals.
3	And he burnt incense in the valley of the son of Hinnom, and he will burn his sons in fire according to the abomination of the nations which Jehovah dispossessed from before the sons of Israel.
4	And he will sacrifice and burn incense in the heights, and upon the hills, and under every green tree.
5	And Jehovah his God will give him into the hand of the king of Aram; and they will strike upon him, and they will make captives from them a great captivity, and bring to Darmesek. And also he was given into the hand of the king of Israel, and he will strike upon him a great blow.
6	And Pekah son of Remaliah will kill in Judah a hundred and twenty thousand in one day, the whole sons of strength; in their forsaking Jehovah the God of their fathers.
7	And Zichri a strong one of Ephraim will kill Maaseiah the king’s son, and Azrikam leader of the house, of Elkanah, second to the king.
8	And the sons of Israel will make captive from their brethren two hundred thousand, women, sons and daughters, and also much spoil they plundered from them, and they will bring the spoil to Shomeron.
9	And a prophet to Jehovah was there, Oded his name: and he will go forth before the army coming to Shomeron, and say to them, Behold, in the anger of Jehovah the God of your fathers upon Judah he gave them into your hand, and ye will slay among them in wrath reaching even to the heavens.
10	And now ye are saying to subdue the sons of Judah and Jerusalem for servants and for maids to you: are not only with you trespasses with you against Jehovah your God?
11	And now hear me and turn back the captivity that ye took captive from your brethren: for the burning of the anger of Jehovah is upon you.
12	And there will arise up men from the heads of the sons of Ephraim, Azariah son of Johanan, Berechiah son of Meshillemoth, and Jehizkiah son of Shallum, and Amasa son of Hadlai, against those coming from the war,
13	And they will say to them, Ye shall not bring the captivity here; because for trespass Jehovah is against us, ye saying to add to our sins and to our trespass: for great the trespass to us, and the burning of anger against Israel.
14	And the armed will leave the captivity and the plunder before the chiefs and all the convocation.
15	And men who were distinguished by names will rise up and will lay hold upon the captivity, and all their naked they clothed from the spoil, and they will clothe them, and shoe them, and feed them, and give them to drink, and anoint them, and conduct them upon asses for all being weak, and bring them to Jericho the city of palm trees, near their brethren: and they will turn back to Shomeron.
16	In that time king Ahaz sent for the kings of Assur for help to him.
17	And yet the Edomites came and they will strike in Judah, and take captive a captivity.
18	And the rovers invaded upon the cities of the low country, and the south to Judah, and they will take the house of the sun, and the oak, and the walls, and the branches and her daughters, and the portion assigned and her daughters, and Gimzo and her daughters: and they will dwell there.
19	For Jehovah humbled Judah on account of Ahaz king of Israel: for he was unbridled upon Judah, and transgressing, he transgressed against Jehovah.
20	And Tilgath-Pileser king of Assur, will come to him and he will press upon him, and he strengthened him not.
21	For Ahaz divided out the house of Jehovah, and the king’s house, and the chiefs, and he will give to the king of Assur: and not for help to him.
22	And in the time of straits to him and he will add to transgress against Jehovah: this the king Ahaz.
23	And he will sacrifice to the gods of Darmesek smiting upon him: and he will say, Because the gods of the kings of Aram they help them, to them will I sacrifice, and they will help me. And they were to him for stumbling, and to all Israel.
24	And Ahaz will gather together the vessels of the house of God, and cut in pieces the vessels of the house of God, and shut up the doors of the house of Jehovah, and he will make to him altars in every corner in Jerusalem.
25	And in every city and city to Judah he made heights to burn incense to other gods, and he will irritate Jehovah the God of his fathers.
26	And the rest of his words and all his ways, the first and the last, behold them written upon the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
27	And Ahaz will lie down with his fathers, and they will bury him in the city in Jerusalem: but they brought him not to the graves of the kings of Israel: and Hezekiah his son will reign in his stead.