1	And Hezekiah will send to all Israel and Judah, and also he wrote letters to Ephraim and Manasseh to come to the house of Jehovah in Jerusalem, to do the passover to Jehovah the God of Israel.
2	And the king will take counsel, and his chiefs, and all the convocation in Jerusalem, to do the passover in the second month.
3	For they could not do it at that time for the priests consecrated not themselves sufficiently, and the people were not gathered to Jerusalem.
4	And the word will be straight in the eyes of the king, and in the eyes of all the convocation.
5	And they will set up a word to cause a voice to pass in all Israel, from the well of the oath, and even to judgment, to come to do the passover to Jehovah God of Israel in Jerusalem: for they did not for much time as written.
6	And the runners will go with the letters from the hand of the king and his chiefs in all Israel and Judah, and according to the command of the king, saying, Ye sons of Israel, turn back to Jehovah the God of Abraham, Isaak and Israel, and he will turn back to the escaping being left to you from the hand of the king of Assur.
7	And ye shall not be as your fathers and as your brethren who trespassed against Jehovah the God of their fathers, and he will give them to desolation according to what ye see.
8	Now ye shall not harden your neck as your fathers; ye shall give the hand to Jehovah, and come ye into his holy place which he consecrated forever: and serve ye Jehovah your God, and he will turn back from you the burning of his anger.
9	For in your turning back to Jehovah, your brethren and your sons are for compassions before them making them captive, to turn back to this land: for Jehovah your God being merciful and compassionate, and he will not turn away his face from you if ye shall turn back to him.
10	And the runners will be passing from city to city in the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, and even to Zebulon: and laughing upon them, and deriding over them.
11	But men from Asher and Manasseh, and from Zebulon, were humbled, and they will come to Jerusalem.
12	Also in Judah was the hand of God to give to them one heart to do the commands of the king and the chiefs by the word of Jehovah.
13	And there will gather together many people at Jerusalem to do the festival of the unleavened in the second month, a convocation for exceeding greatness.
14	And they will rise and take away the altars which were in Jerusalem, and the censers they removed, and they will cast to the torrent Kidron.
15	They will slaughter the passover in the fourteenth to the second month: and the priests and the Levites were ashamed, and they will consecrate themselves and bring burnt-offerings to the house of Jehovah.
16	And they will stand upon their standing according to their judgment, according to the law of Moses the man of God: the priests sprinkling the bloods from the hand of the Levites.
17	For many in the convocation which consecrated not themselves: and the Levites for slaughtering the passover to all not being cleansed to consecrate to Jehovah.
18	For a multitude of the people, many from Ephraim and Manasseh, Issachar and Zebulon, were not cleansed, for they ate the Passover not as written. But Hezekiah prayed for them, saying, Jehovah the good will expiate in behalf.
19	Of every one preparing his heart to seek God, Jehovah the God of his fathers, and not according to the purification of the holy place.
20	And Jehovah will hear to Hezekiah and he will heal the people.
21	And the sons of Israel, those found in Jerusalem, will do the festival of the unleavened seven days, in great gladness: and the priests and the Levites praising to Jehovah day by day with instruments of strength to Jehovah.
22	And Hezekiah will speak to the heart of all the Levites considering the good knowledge to Jehovah: and they will eat at the appointment seven days, sacrificing sacrifices of peace, and confessing to Jehovah the God of their fathers.
23	And all the convocation will take counsel to do other seven days: and they will do seven days with gladness.
24	For Hezekiah king of Judah lifted up to the convocation a thousand bullocks and seven thousand sheep; and the chiefs lifted up to the convocation a thousand bullocks and ten thousand sheep: and the priests will consecrate themselves to a multitude.
25	And all the convocation of Judah will rejoice, and the priests and the Levites, and all the convocation coming from Israel, and the strangers coming from the land of Israel, and those dwelling in Judah.
26	And there will be great gladness in Jerusalem: for from the days of Solomon son of David king of Israel there was not as this in Jerusalem.
27	And the priests the Levites will rise up and bless the people: and he will hear to their voice, and their prayer will come to the dwelling of his holy place to the heavens.