1	And it will be from the end of twenty years, which Solomon built the house of Jehovah and his house,
2	And the cities which Huram gave to Solomon, Solomon built them, and he will cause the sons of Israel to dwell there.
3	And Solomon will go to Hamath-Zobah and he will lay hold upon it.
4	And he will build Tadmor in the desert, and all the cities of the stores which he built in Hamath.
5	And he will build the house of the hollow the high, and the house of the hollow the low, fortified cities, the walls, doors, and bar:
6	And Baalath and all the cities of the stores which were to Solomon, and all the cities of the chariots, and the cities of the horsemen, and all the desire of Solomon which he delighted to build in Jerusalem and Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion.
7	All the people being left from the Hittites and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites and the Jebusites, which they were not from Israel,
8	From their sons who were left after them in the land which the sons of Israel consumed them not, and Solomon will bring them up for tribute even to this day.
9	And from the sons of Israel which Solomon gave not for servants for his work, for they the men of war and the chiefs of his thirds, and chiefs of his chariots and his horsemen.
10	And these the chiefs of the prefects which were to king Solomon, fifty and two hundred ruling over the people.
11	And the daughter of Pharaoh, Solomon brought up from the city of David to the house which he built for her: for he said, The wife to me shall not dwell in the house of David king of Israel, for they are holiness which to them came the ark of Jehovah.
12	Then Solomon brought up burnt-offerings to Jehovah upon the altar of Jehovah which he built before the porch
13	And in the word of a day in a day to bring up according to the commands of Moses for the Sabbaths, and for the new moons, and for the appointments, three times in the year, in the festival of unleavened, in the festival of sevens, and in the festival of the tents.
14	And he will set up according to the judgment of David his father the divisions of the priests for their service, and the Levites for their watches, to praise and to serve before the priests for the word of a day in its day; and the gate-keepers in their divisions, to gate and gate: for thus the command of David the man of God.
15	And they departed not from the command of the king concerning the priests and the Levites for every word and for the treasures.
16	And all the work of Solomon will be prepared even to the day of the founding the house of Jehovah and even till its finishing. The house of Jehovah was completed.
17	Then Solomon went to Ezion-Geber and to Eloth upon the lip of the sea in the land of Edom.
18	And Huram will send to him by the hand of his servants, ships, and servants knowing the sea; and they will go with the servants of Solomon to Ophir, and they will take from there four hundred and fifty talents of gold and bring to king Solomon.