1	The parables of Solomon, son of David, king of Israel,
2	in order to know wisdom and discipline,
3	to understand words of prudence, and to accept the instruction of doctrine, justice and judgment, and equity,
4	so as to give discernment to little ones, knowledge and understanding to adolescents.
5	By listening, the wise shall become wiser and the intelligent shall possess governments.
6	He shall turn his soul to a parable and to its interpretation, to the words of the wise and their enigmas.
7	The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. The foolish despise wisdom as well as doctrine.
8	Listen, my son, to the discipline of your father, and forsake not the law of your mother,
9	so that grace may be added to your head and a collar to your neck.
10	My son, if sinners should entice you, do not consent to them.
11	If they should say: “Come with us. We will lie in wait for blood. We will lay traps against the innocent, without cause.
12	Let us swallow him alive, like Hell, and whole, like one descending into the pit.
13	We will discover every precious substance. We will fill our houses with spoils.
14	Cast your lot with us. One purse will be for us all.”
15	My son, do not walk with them. Preclude your feet from their paths.
16	For their feet rush to evil, and they hurry to shed blood.
17	But a net is thrown in vain before the eyes of those who have wings.
18	Likewise, they lie in ambush against their own blood, and they undertake deceits against their own souls.
19	Thus, the ways of all those who are greedy seize the souls of those who possess.
20	Wisdom forewarns far and wide; she bestows her voice in the streets.
21	She cries out at the head of crowds; at the entrance of the gates of the city, she offers her words, saying:
22	“Little ones, how long will you choose to be childish, and how long will the foolish desire what is harmful to themselves, and how long will the imprudent hate knowledge?
23	Be converted by my correction. Lo, I will offer my spirit to you, and I will reveal my words to you.
24	For I called, and you refused. I extended my hand, and there was no one who watched.
25	You have despised all my counsels, and you have neglected my rebukes.
26	Similarly, I will ridicule you at your demise, and I will mock you, when that which you feared shall overcome you.
27	When sudden calamity rushes upon you, and your demise advances like a tempest, when tribulation and anguish overcome you,
28	then they will call to me, and I will not heed, they will arise in the morning, and not find me.
29	For they held hatred for discipline, and they would not accept the fear of the Lord;
30	they would not consent to my counsel, but they detracted from all of my corrections.
31	Therefore, they shall eat the fruit of their way, and they shall have their fill of their own counsels.
32	The loathing of the little ones shall destroy them, and the prosperity of the foolish shall perish them.
33	But whoever will listen to me shall rest without terror, and shall have full enjoyment of abundance, without fear of evils.”