1	It is for man to prepare the soul, and for the Lord to govern the tongue.
2	All the ways of a man are open to his eyes; the Lord is the one who weighs spirits.
3	Open your works to the Lord, and your intentions will be set in order.
4	The Lord has wrought all things because of himself. Likewise the impious is for the evil day.
5	All the arrogant are an abomination to the Lord. Even if hand will be joined to hand, he is not innocent. The beginning of a good way is to do justice. And this is more acceptable with God than to immolate sacrifices.
6	By mercy and truth, iniquity is redeemed. And by the fear of the Lord, one turns away from evil.
7	When the ways of man will please the Lord, he will convert even his enemies to peace.
8	Better is a little with justice, than many fruits with iniquity.
9	The heart of man disposes his way. But it is for Lord to direct his steps.
10	Foreknowledge is in the lips of the king. His mouth shall not err in judgment.
11	Weights and scales are judgments of the Lord. And all the stones in the bag are his work.
12	Those who act impiously are abominable to the king. For the throne is made firm by justice.
13	Just lips are the will of kings. He who speaks honestly shall be loved.
14	The indignation of a king is a herald of death. And the wise man will appease it.
15	In the cheerfulness of the king’s countenance, there is life. And his clemency is like belated rain.
16	Possess wisdom, for it is better than gold. And acquire prudence, for it is more precious than silver.
17	The path of the just turns away from evils. He who guards his soul preserves his way.
18	Arrogance precedes destruction. And the spirit is exalted before a fall.
19	It is better to be humbled with the meek, than to divide spoils with the arrogant.
20	The learned in word shall find good things. And whoever hopes in the Lord is blessed.
21	Whoever is wise in heart shall be called prudent. And whoever is sweet in eloquence shall attain to what is greater.
22	Learning is a fountain of life to one who possesses it. The doctrine of the foolish is senseless.
23	The heart of the wise shall instruct his mouth and add grace to his lips.
24	Careful words are a honeycomb: sweet to the soul and healthful to the bones.
25	There is a way which seems right to a man, and its end result leads to death.
26	The soul of the laborer labors for himself, because his mouth has driven him to it.
27	The impious man digs up evil, and in his lips is a burning fire.
28	A perverse man stirs up lawsuits. And one who is verbose divides leaders.
29	A man of iniquity entices his friend, and he leads him along a way that is not good.
30	Whoever, with astonished eyes, thinks up depravities, biting his lips, accomplishes evil.
31	Old age is a crown of dignity, when it is found in the ways of justice.
32	A patient man is better than a strong one. And whoever rules his soul is better than one who assaults cities.
33	Lots are cast into the lap, but they are tempered by the Lord.