1	It is a luxurious thing, wine, and inebriation is tumultuous. Anyone who is delighted by this will not be wise.
2	Just like the roaring of a lion, so also is the dread of a king. Whoever provokes him sins in his own soul.
3	Honor is for the man who separates himself from contentions. But all the foolish meddle in altercations.
4	Because of the cold, the lazy one was not willing to plough. Therefore, in the summer, he will beg, and it will not be given to him.
5	Counsel in the heart of a man is like deep waters. But a wise man will draw it out.
6	Many men are called merciful. But who will find a faithful man?
7	The just who walks in his simplicity shall leave behind him blessed sons.
8	The king who sits on the throne of judgment scatters all evil with his gaze.
9	Who is able to say: “My heart is clean. I am pure from sin?”
10	Diverse weights, diverse measures: both are abominable with God.
11	A child may be understood by his interests: whether his works may be clean and upright.
12	The hearing ear and the seeing eye: the Lord has made them both.
13	Do not love sleep, lest deprivation oppress you. Open your eyes and be satisfied with bread.
14	“It is bad, it is bad,” says every buyer; and when he has withdrawn, then he will boast.
15	There is gold, and there are a multitude of jewels. But lips of knowledge are a precious vessel.
16	Take away the vestments of him who stands up to vouch for a stranger, and take a pledge from him instead of from outsiders.
17	The bread of lies is sweet to a man. But afterwards, his mouth will be filled with pebbles.
18	Plans are strengthened by counsels. And wars are to be handled by governments.
19	Do not become involved with him who reveals mysteries, and who walks deceitfully, and who enlarges his lips.
20	Whoever curses his father and mother, his lamp will be extinguished in the midst of darkness.
21	When an inheritance is obtained hastily in the beginning, in the end it will be without a blessing.
22	Do not say, “I will repay evil.” Wait for the Lord, and he will free you.
23	Diverse weights are an abomination with the Lord. A deceitful balance is not good.
24	The steps of men are directed by the Lord. But who is the man able to understand his own way?
25	It is ruin for a man to devour what is holy, or, after making vows, to retract them.
26	A wise king scatters the impious and bends an archway over them.
27	The spirit of a man is a lamp to the Lord, which investigates all the secrets of the inner self.
28	Mercy and truth guard the king, and his throne is strengthened by clemency.
29	The joy of youths is their strength. And the dignity of old men is their grey hairs.
30	The bruise of a wound, as well as scourges, shall wipe away evils in the more secret places of the inner self.