1	Do not imitate evil men, nor desire to be among them.
2	For their mind meditates on robberies, and their lips speak deceptions.
3	By wisdom shall a house be built, and by prudence shall it be strengthened.
4	By doctrine, the storerooms shall be filled with every substance that is precious and most beautiful.
5	A wise man is strong, and a well-taught man is robust and valiant.
6	For war is undertaken in an orderly manner, and safety shall be where there are many counsels.
7	Wisdom is beyond the foolish; at the gate he will not open his mouth.
8	Whoever intends to do evil shall be called foolish.
9	The intention of the foolish is sin. And the detractor is an abomination among men.
10	If you despair, being weary in the day of anguish, your strength will be diminished.
11	Rescue those who are led away to death. And do not cease from delivering those who are dragged away to a violent death.
12	If you would say: “I do not have sufficient strength.” He who inspects the heart, the same one understands, and nothing slips past the one who preserves your soul. And he shall repay a man according to his works.
13	My son, eat honey, because it is good, and the honeycomb, because it is so sweet to your throat.
14	So, too, is the doctrine of wisdom to your soul. When you have found it, you will have hope in the end, and your hope shall not perish.
15	Do not lie in wait, and do not seek impiety in the house of the just, nor spoil his rest.
16	For the just one will fall seven times, and he shall rise again. But the impious will fall into evil.
17	When your enemy will fall, do not be glad, and do not let your heart exult in his ruin,
18	lest perhaps the Lord see, and it displease him, and he may take away his wrath from him.
19	Do not contend with the most wicked, and do not be a rival to the impious.
20	For the evil hold no hope in the future, and the lamp of the impious will be extinguished.
21	My son, fear the Lord, as well as the king. And do not mingle with detractors.
22	For their perdition shall up rise suddenly. And who knows what ruin will be for each of them?
23	Likewise, these things are for the wise. It is not good to base judgment on knowledge of character.
24	Those who say to the impious, “You are just,” shall be cursed by the people, and the tribes shall detest them.
25	Those who argue against the impious shall be praised, and a blessing shall come upon them.
26	He shall kiss the lips, who responds with upright words.
27	Prepare your outdoor work, and diligently cultivate your field, so that afterward, you may build your house.
28	Do not be a witness without cause against your neighbor. And do not mislead anyone with your lips.
29	Do not say, “I will do to him as he has done to me.” I will repay each one according to his work.
30	I passed by the field of a lazy man, and by the vineyard of a foolish man,
31	and behold, it was entirely filled with nettles, and thorns had covered its surface, and the stonewall was destroyed.
32	When I had seen this, I laid it up in my heart, and by this example, I received discipline.
33	You will sleep a little,” I said. “You will slumber briefly. You will fold your hands a little, so as to rest.
34	And destitution will overtake you like a runner, and begging will overtake you like an armed man.”