1	These, too, are parables of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah, king of Judah, transferred.
2	It is to the glory of God to conceal a word, and it is to the glory of kings to investigate speech.
3	Heaven above, and earth below, and the heart of kings are each unsearchable.
4	Take away the tarnish from silver, and a most pure vessel will go forth.
5	Take away impiety from the face of the king, and his throne shall be made firm by justice.
6	Do not appear glorious before the king, and do not stand in the place of the great.
7	For it is better that it should be said to you, “Ascend to here,” than that you should be humbled before the prince.
8	The things that your eyes have seen, do not offer hastily in a quarrel, lest afterward you may not be able to make amends, when you have dishonored your friend.
9	Argue your case with your friend, and do not reveal the secret to an outsider,
10	lest perhaps he may insult you, when he has heard it, and he might not cease to reproach you. Grace and friendship free a man; preserve these for yourself, lest you fall under reproach.
11	Whoever speaks a word at an opportune time is like apples of gold on beds of silver.
12	Whoever reproves the wise and obedient ear is like an earring of gold with a shining pearl.
13	Just like the cold of snow in a time of harvest, so also is a faithful messenger to him who sent him: he causes his soul to rest.
14	A man who boasts and does not fulfill his promises is like clouds and wind, when rain does not follow.
15	By patience, a leader shall be appeased, and a soft tongue shall break hardness.
16	You have discovered honey; eat what is sufficient for you, lest perhaps, being filled up, you may vomit it.
17	Withdraw your feet from the house of your neighbor, lest, when he has had his fill, he may hate you.
18	A man who speaks false testimony against his neighbor is like a dart and a sword and a sharp arrow.
19	Whoever sets his hopes on the unfaithful in a day of anguish is like a rotten tooth and weary foot,
20	and like one who loosens his garment in cold weather. Whoever sings verses to a wicked heart is like vinegar on baking soda. Just like a moth to a garment, and a worm to wood, so too does the sadness of a man do harm to the heart.
21	If your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him water to drink.
22	For you will gather hot coals upon his head, and the Lord will repay you.
23	The north wind brings forth the rain, and a sorrowful face brings forth a detracting tongue.
24	It is better to sit in a corner of the attic, than with an argumentative woman and in a shared house.
25	Like cold water to a thirsty soul, so too are good reports from a far away land.
26	The just falling down before the impious is like a fountain stirred up by feet and like a corrupted spring.
27	Just as whoever eats too much honey, it is not good for him, so also whoever is an investigator of what is majestic will be overwhelmed by glory.
28	Just like a city lying in the open and without surrounding walls, so also is a man who is unable to restrain his own spirit in speaking.