1	My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart guard my precepts.
2	For they shall set before you length of days, and years of life, and peace.
3	Let not mercy and truth abandon you: encircle them around your throat, and inscribe them on the tablets of your heart.
4	And so shall you discover grace and good discipline, in the sight of God and men.
5	Have confidence in the Lord with all your heart, and do not depend upon your own prudence.
6	In all your ways, consider him, and he himself will direct your steps.
7	Do not seem wise to yourself. Fear God, and withdraw from evil.
8	Certainly, it shall be health to your navel, and refreshment to your bones.
9	Honor the Lord with your substance, and give to him from the first of all your fruits,
10	and then your storehouses will be filled with abundance, and your presses shall overflow with wine.
11	My son, do not discard the discipline of the Lord, and do not fall away when you are corrected by him.
12	For whomever the Lord loves, he corrects, and just as a father does with a son, he wins him over.
13	Blessed is the man who finds wisdom and who advances to prudence.
14	Her acquisition is better than trading in silver, and her fruit is better than the first and purest gold.
15	She is more precious than all riches, and all that can be desired cannot prevail in comparison to her.
16	Length of days is at her right hand, and at her left hand is wealth and glory.
17	Her ways are beautiful ways, and all her paths are peaceful.
18	She is a tree of life to those who overtake her, and he who shall take hold of her is blessed.
19	The Lord founded the earth on wisdom. He secured the heavens with prudence.
20	By his wisdom, the abyss erupted and the clouds increased with dew.
21	My son, let not these things move away from your eyes. Preserve law as well as counsel.
22	And so shall there be life in your soul and grace in your voice.
23	Then you shall walk confidently in your way, and your feet will not stumble.
24	When you slumber, you shall not fear. When you rest, your sleep also will be sweet.
25	Do not fear unexpected terror, nor the power of the impious falling upon you.
26	For the Lord will be at your side, and he will guard your feet, so that you may not be seized.
27	Do not prevent him who is able from doing good. When you are able, do good yourself too.
28	Do not say to your friend: “Go away, and then return. Tomorrow I will give to you.” When you are able to do so, give in the present.
29	Do not undertake evil against your friend, even though he has trust in you.
30	Do not contend against a man without cause, even though he has done no evil to you.
31	Do not rival an unjust man, and do not imitate his ways.
32	For everyone who ridicules is an abomination to the Lord, and his communication is for the simple.
33	Destitution in the house of the impious is from the Lord. But the habitations of the just shall be blessed.
34	He will ridicule those who ridicule, but he will bestow grace upon the mild.
35	The wise will possess glory. The exaltation of the foolish is disgraceful.