1	My son, pay attention to my wisdom, and incline your ear to my prudence,
2	so that you may guard your thinking, and so that your lips may preserve discipline. Do not pay attention to the deceit of a woman.
3	For the lips of a loose woman are like a dripping honeycomb, and her voice is smoother than oil.
4	But in the end, she is as bitter as wormwood, and as sharp as a two-edged sword.
5	Her feet descend into death, and her steps reach even to Hell.
6	They do not walk along the path of life; her steps are wandering and untraceable.
7	Therefore, my son, listen to me now, and do not withdraw from the words of my mouth.
8	Make your way at a distance from her, and do not approach the doors of her house.
9	Do not give your honor to foreigners, and your years to the cruel.
10	Otherwise, outsiders may be filled with your strength, and your labors may be in a foreign house,
11	and you may mourn in the end, when you will have consumed your flesh and your body. And so you may say:
12	“Why have I detested discipline, and why has my heart not been quieted by correction?
13	And why have I not listened to the voice of those who guided me? And why has my ear not inclined to my teachers?
14	I have almost been with all evil in the midst of the church and of the assembly.”
15	Drink water from your own cistern and from the springs of your own well.
16	Let your fountains be diverted far and wide, and divide your waters in the streets.
17	Hold them for yourself alone, and do not let strangers be partakers with you.
18	Let your spring be blessed, and rejoice with the wife of your youth:
19	a beloved doe and most pleasing fawn. Let her breasts inebriate you at all times. Be delighted continually by her love.
20	Why are you seduced, my son, by a strange woman, and why are you kept warm by the bosom of another?
21	The Lord beholds the ways of man, and he considers all his steps.
22	His own iniquities take hold of the impious, and he is bound by the cords of his own sins.
23	He shall die, for he has not held to discipline. And by the multitude of his foolishness, he shall be deceived.