1	Then Jehoshaphat, his son, reigned in his place. And he grew strong against Israel.
2	And he appointed numbers of soldiers in all the cities of Judah that had been fortified with walls. And he placed garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim that his father Asa had seized.
3	And the Lord was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the first ways of his father, David. And he did not trust in the Baals,
4	but in the God of his father. And he advanced in his precepts, and not according to the sins of Israel.
5	And the Lord confirmed the kingdom in his hand. And all of Judah gave gifts to Jehoshaphat. And innumerable riches were brought to him, and much glory.
6	And when his heart had taken courage because of the ways of the Lord, he now also took away the high places and the sacred groves from Judah.
7	Then, in the third year of his reign, he sent Benhail, and Obadiah, and Zechariah, and Nethanel, and Micaiah, from among his leaders, so that they might teach in the cites of Judah.
8	And with them were the Levites Shemaiah and Nethaniah and Zebadiah, and also Asahel and Shemiramoth and Jehonathan, and the Levites Adonijah and Tobijah and Tobadonijah. And with them were the priests Elishama and Jehoram.
9	And they were teaching the people in Judah, having with them the book of the law of the Lord. And they were traveling through all the cities of Judah, and were instructing the people.
10	And so, the fear of the Lord fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands which were around Judah. And they did not dare to make war against Jehoshaphat.
11	Moreover, the Philistines carried gifts to Jehoshaphat, and a tribute in silver. Also, the Arabians brought cattle: seven thousand seven hundred rams, and the same number of he-goats.
12	Therefore, Jehoshaphat increased and was magnified, even on high. And in Judah, he built houses in the likeness of towers, and walled cities.
13	And he prepared many works in the cities of Judah. Also, there were men experienced in warfare in Jerusalem,
14	and this is the number of them, by each of the houses and families. In Judah, the leader of the army was Adnah, the commander; and with him were three hundred thousand very experienced men.
15	After him, Jehohanan was the leader; and with him were two hundred eighty thousand.
16	Also after him, there was Amasiah, the son of Zichri, who was consecrated to the Lord; and with him were two hundred thousand strong men.
17	Following him, there was Eliada, who was experienced in battle; and with him were two hundred thousand, holding bow and shield.
18	Then too, after him, there was Jehozabad; and with him were one hundred eighty thousand lightly-armed solders.
19	All these were at the hand of the king, aside from the others, whom he had positioned in the walled cities, in all of Judah.