1	I testify before God, and before Jesus Christ, who shall judge the living and the dead through his return and his kingdom:
2	that you should preach the word urgently, in season and out of season: reprove, entreat, rebuke, with all patience and doctrine.
3	For there shall be a time when they will not endure sound doctrine, but instead, according to their own desires, they will gather to themselves teachers, with itching ears,
4	and certainly, they will turn their hearing away from the truth, and they will be turned toward fables.
5	But as for you, truly, be vigilant, laboring in all things. Do the work of an Evangelist, fulfilling your ministry. Show self-restraint.
6	For I am already being worn away, and the time of my dissolution presses close.
7	I have fought the good fight. I have completed the course. I have preserved the faith.
8	As for the remainder, a crown of justice has been reserved for me, one which the Lord, the just judge, will render to me in that day, and not only to me, but also to those who look forward to his return. Hurry to return to me soon.
9	For Demas has abandoned me, out of love for this age, and he has departed for Thessalonica.
10	Crescens has gone to Galatia; Titus to Dalmatia.
11	Luke alone is with me. Take Mark and bring him with you; for he is useful to me in the ministry.
12	But Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus.
13	When you return, bring with you the supplies that I left with Carpus at Troas, and the books, but especially the parchments.
14	Alexander the coppersmith has shown me much evil; the Lord will repay him according to his works.
15	And you should also avoid him; for he has strongly resisted our words.
16	At my first defense, no one stood by me, but everyone abandoned me. May it not be counted against them!
17	But the Lord stood with me and strengthened me, so that through me the preaching would be accomplished, and so that all the Gentiles would hear. And I was freed from the mouth of the lion.
18	The Lord has freed me from every evil work, and he will accomplish salvation by his heavenly kingdom. To him be glory forever and ever. Amen.
19	Greet Prisca, and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus.
20	Erastus remained at Corinth. And Trophimus I left sick at Miletus.
21	Hurry to arrive before winter. Eubulus, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brothers greet you.
22	May the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. May grace be with you. Amen.