1	O senseless Galatians, who has so fascinated you that you would not obey the truth, even though Jesus Christ has been presented before your eyes, crucified among you?
2	I wish to know only this from you: Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith?
3	Are you so foolish that, though you began with the Spirit, you would now end with the flesh?
4	Have you been suffering so much without a reason? If so, then it is in vain.
5	Therefore, does he who distributes the Spirit to you, and who works miracles among you, act by the works of the law, or by the hearing of the faith?
6	It is just as it was written: “Abraham believed God, and it was reputed to him unto justice.”
7	Therefore, know that those who are of faith, these are the sons of Abraham.
8	Thus Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, foretold to Abraham: “All nations shall be blessed in you.”
9	And so, those who are of faith shall be blessed with faithful Abraham.
10	For as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse. For it has been written: “Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all the things that have been written in the book of the Law, so as to do them.”
11	And, since in the law no one is justified with God, this is manifest: “For the just man lives by faith.”
12	But the law is not of faith; instead, “he who does these things shall live by them.”
13	Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, since he became a curse for us. For it is written: “Cursed is anyone who hangs from a tree.”
14	This was so that the blessing of Abraham might reach the Gentiles through Christ Jesus, in order that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.
15	Brothers (I speak according to man), if a man’s testament has been confirmed, no one would reject it or add to it.
16	The promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. He did not say, “and to descendents,” as if to many, but instead, as if to one, he said, “and to your offspring,” who is Christ.
17	But I say this: the testament confirmed by God, which, after four hundred and thirty years became the Law, does not nullify, so as to make the promise empty.
18	For if the inheritance is of the law, then it is no longer of the promise. But God bestowed it to Abraham through the promise.
19	Why, then, was there a law? It was established because of transgressions, until the offspring would arrive, to whom he made the promise, ordained by Angels through the hand of a mediator.
20	Now a mediator is not of one, yet God is one.
21	So then, was the law contrary to the promises of God? Let it not be so! For if a law had been given, which was able to give life, truly justice would be of the law.
22	But Scripture has enclosed everything under sin, so that the promise, by the faith of Jesus Christ, might be given to those who believe.
23	But before the faith arrived, we were preserved by being enclosed under the law, unto that faith which was to be revealed.
24	And so the law was our guardian in Christ, in order that we might be justified by faith.
25	But now that faith has arrived, we are no longer under a guardian.
26	For you are all sons of God, through the faith which is in Christ Jesus.
27	For as many of you as have been baptized in Christ have become clothed with Christ.
28	There is neither Jew nor Greek; there is neither servant nor free; there is neither male nor female. For you are all one in Christ Jesus.
29	And if you are Christ’s, then are you the offspring of Abraham, heirs according to the promise.