1	But I say that, during the time an heir is a child, he is no different from a servant, even though he is the owner of everything.
2	For he is under tutors and caretakers, until the time which was predetermined by the father.
3	So also we, when we were children, were subservient to the influences of the world.
4	But when the fullness of time arrived, God sent his Son, formed from a woman, formed under the law,
5	so that he might redeem those who were under the law, in order that we might receive the adoption of sons.
6	Therefore, because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying out: “Abba, Father.”
7	And so now he is not a servant, but a son. But if he is a son, then he is also an heir, through God.
8	But then, certainly, while ignorant of God, you served those who, by nature, are not gods.
9	But now, since you have known God, or rather, since you have been known by God: how can you turn away again, to weak and destitute influences, which you desire to serve anew?
10	You serve the days, and months, and times, and years.
11	I am afraid for you, lest perhaps I may have labored in vain among you.
12	Brothers, I beg you. Be as I am. For I, too, am like you. You have not injured me at all.
13	But you know that, in the weakness of the flesh, I have preached the Gospel to you for a long time, and that your trials are in my flesh.
14	You did not despise or reject me. But instead, you accepted me like an Angel of God, even like Christ Jesus.
15	Therefore, where is your happiness? For I offer to you testimony that, if it could be done, you would have plucked out your own eyes and would have given them to me.
16	So then, have I become your enemy by telling you the truth?
17	They are not imitating you well. And they are willing to exclude you, so that you might imitate them.
18	But be imitators of what is good, always in a good way, and not only when I am present with you.
19	My little sons, I am giving birth to you again, until Christ is formed in you.
20	And I would willingly be present with you, even now. But I would alter my voice: for I am ashamed of you.
21	Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, have you not read the law?
22	For it is written that Abraham had two sons: one by a servant woman, and one by a free woman.
23	And he who was of the servant was born according to the flesh. But he who was of the free woman was born by the promise.
24	These things are said through an allegory. For these represent the two testaments. Certainly the one, on Mount Sinai, gives birth unto servitude, which is Hagar.
25	For Sinai is a mountain in Arabia, which is related to the Jerusalem of the present time, and it serves with her sons.
26	But that Jerusalem which is above is free; the same is our mother.
27	For it was written: “Rejoice, O barren one, though you do not conceive. Burst forth and cry out, though you do not give birth. For many are the children of the desolate, even more than of her who has a husband.”
28	Now we, brothers, like Isaac, are sons of the promise.
29	But just as then, he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now.
30	And what does Scripture say? “Cast out the woman servant and her son. For the son of a servant women shall not be an heir with the son of a free woman.”
31	And so, brothers, we are not the sons of the servant woman, but rather of the free woman. And this is the freedom with which Christ has set us free.