1	- - -
2	Bride: May he kiss me with the kiss of his mouth. Groom to Bride: So much better than wine are your breasts, fragranced with the finest perfumes.
3	Bride to Groom: Your name is oil that has been poured out; therefore, the maidens have loved you. Draw me forward.
4	Chorus to Bride: We will run after you in the odor of your perfumes. Bride to Chorus: The king has led me into his storerooms. Chorus to Bride: We will exult and rejoice in you, remembering your breasts above wine. Groom to Bride: The righteous love you.
5	Bride to Chorus: O daughters of Jerusalem: I am black, but shapely, like the tabernacles of Kedar, like the tents of Solomon.
6	Do not be concerned that I am dark, for the sun has changed my color. The sons of my mother have fought against me. They have made me the keeper of the vineyards. My own vineyard I have not kept.
7	Bride to Groom: Reveal to me, you whom my soul loves, where you pasture, where you recline at midday, lest I begin to wander after the flocks of your companions.
8	Groom to Bride: If you yourself do not know, O most beautiful among women, then go out and follow after the steps of the flocks, and pasture your young goats beside the tabernacles of the shepherds.
9	O my love, I have compared you to my company of horsemen against the chariots of Pharaoh.
10	Your cheeks are beautiful, like those of a turtledove. Your neck is like a bejeweled collar.
11	Chorus to Bride: We will fashion for you chains of gold, accented with reddened silver.
12	Bride to Chorus: While the king was taking his rest, my aromatic ointment sent forth its odor.
13	My beloved is a bundle of myrrh to me. He shall abide between my breasts.
14	My beloved is a cluster of Cyprus grapes to me, in the vineyards of Engaddi.
15	Groom to Bride: Behold, you are beautiful, O my love. Behold, you are beautiful. Your eyes are those of a dove.
16	Bride to Groom: Behold, you are handsome, O my beloved, and graceful. Our bed is flourishing.
17	Groom to Bride: The timbers of our houses are of cedar; our ceilings are of cypress.