1	Groom to Bride: How beautiful you are, my love, how beautiful you are! Your eyes are those of a dove, except for what is hidden within. Your hair is like flocks of goats, which ascend along the mountain of Gilead.
2	Your teeth are like flocks of shorn sheep, which ascend from the washing, each one with its identical twin, and not one among them is barren.
3	Your lips are like a scarlet ribbon, and your eloquence is sweetness. Like a piece of pomegranate, so are your cheeks, except for what is hidden within.
4	Your neck is like the tower of David, which was built with ramparts: a thousand shields are hanging from it, all the armor of the strong.
5	Your two breasts are like two young does, twins that pasture among the lilies.
6	Until the day rises and the shadows decline, I will go to the mountain of myrrh and to the hill of frankincense.
7	You are totally beautiful, my love, and there is no blemish in you.
8	Advance from Lebanon, my spouse, advance from Lebanon, advance. You shall be crowned at the head of Amana, near the summit of Senir and Hermon, by the dens of lions, by the mountains of leopards.
9	You have wounded my heart, my sister, my spouse. You have wounded my heart with one look of your eyes, and with one lock of hair on your neck.
10	How beautiful are your breasts, my sister, my spouse! Your breasts are more beautiful than wine, and the fragrance of your ointments is above all aromatic oils.
11	Your lips, my spouse, are a dripping honeycomb; honey and milk are under your tongue. And the fragrance of your garments is like the odor of frankincense.
12	An enclosed garden is my sister, my spouse: an enclosed garden, a sealed fountain.
13	You send forth a paradise of pomegranates along with the fruits of the orchard: Cypress grapes, with aromatic oil;
14	aromatic oil and saffron; sweet cane and cinnamon, with all the trees of Lebanon; myrrh and aloe, with all the best ointments.
15	The fountain of the gardens is a well of living waters, which flow forcefully from Lebanon.
16	Rise up, north wind, and advance, south wind. Send a breeze through my garden, and carry its aromatic scents.