1	Adam, Seth, Enos,
2	Cainan, Mahalalel, Jared,
3	Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech,
4	Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
5	The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, Tubal, Meshech, Tiras.
6	And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
7	And the sons of Javan: Elishah and Tarshish, Kittim and Rodanim.
8	The sons of Ham: Cush, and Mizraim, and Put, and Canaan.
9	And the sons of Cush: Seba, and Havilah, Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabteca. And the sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dadan.
10	Then Cush conceived Nimrod, and he began to be powerful upon the earth.
11	Truly, Mizraim conceived Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
12	as well as Pathrusim and Casluhim: from these the Philistines and the Caphtorim went forth.
13	Truly, Canaan conceived Sidon, his firstborn, as well as the Hittite,
14	and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,
15	and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,
16	and also the Arvadian, and the Samarite, and the Hamathite.
17	The sons of Shem: Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech.
18	Then Arphaxad conceived Shelah, who also himself conceived Eber.
19	And to Eber were born two sons. The name of one was Peleg, because in his days the earth was divided. And the name of his brother was Joktan.
20	Then Joktan conceived Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,
21	as well as Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,
22	and then Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba, indeed
23	also Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All these are the sons of Joktan.
24	Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah,
25	Eber, Peleg, Reu,
26	Serug, Nahor, Terah,
27	Abram, the same is Abraham.
28	And the sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael.
29	And these are their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth, and then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
30	and Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema,
31	Jetur, Naphish, Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael.
32	And the sons of Keturah, the concubine of Abraham, whom she conceived: Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan: Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.
33	And the sons of Midian: Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these are the sons of Keturah.
34	Now Abraham conceived Isaac, whose sons were Esau and Israel.
35	The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, and Korah.
36	The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, Kenez, and by Timna, Amalek.
37	The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, Mizzah.
38	The sons of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, Dishan.
39	The sons of Lotan: Hori, Heman. Now the sister of Lotan was Timna.
40	The sons of Shobal: Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. The sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah. The sons of Anah: Dishon.
41	The sons of Dishon: Hamran, and Esheban, and Ithran, and Cheran.
42	The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan. The sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.
43	Now these are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom, before there was a king over the sons of Israel: Bela, the son of Beor; and the name of his city was Dinhabah.
44	Then Bela died, and Jobab, the son of Zerah, from Bozrah, reigned in his place.
45	And when Jobab also had died, Husham, from the land of the Temanites, reigned in his place.
46	Then Husham also passed away, and Hadad, the son of Bedad, reigned in his place. And he struck the Midianites in the land of Moab. The name of his city was Avith.
47	And when Hadad also had died, Samlah from Masrekah reigned in his place.
48	Then Samlah also died, and Shaul from Rehoboth, which is situated beside a river, reigned in his place.
49	Shaul also having died, Baal-hanan, the son of Achbor, reigned in his place.
50	Then he too died, and Hadar reigned in his place. And the name of his city was Pau. And his wife was called Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
51	And Hadar having died, there began to be commanders in Edom in place of kings: commander Thamna, commander Alvah, commander Jetheth,
52	commander Oholibamah, commander Elah, commander Pinon,
53	commander Kanez, commander Teman, commander Mibzar,
54	commander Magdiel, commander Iram. These are the commanders of Edom.