1	Also, Hiram, the king of Tyre, sent messengers to David, and cedar wood, and artisans of walls and of wood, so that they might build a house for him.
2	And David realized that the Lord had confirmed him as king over Israel, and that his kingdom had been lifted up over his people Israel.
3	Also, David took other wives in Jerusalem. And he conceived sons and daughters.
4	And these are the names of those who were born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua and Shobab, Nathan and Solomon,
5	Ibhar, and Elishua, and Elpelet,
6	as well as Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
7	Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphelet.
8	Then, hearing that David had been anointed as king over all of Israel, all the Philistines ascended so that they might seek him. But when David had heard of it, he went out to meet them.
9	Now the Philistines, arriving, spread out in the Valley of the Rephaim.
10	And so David consulted the Lord, saying, “Shall I ascend to the Philistines, and will you deliver them into my hand?” And the Lord said to him, “Ascend, and I will deliver them into your hand.”
11	And when they had ascended to Baal-perazim, David struck them there, and he said: “God has divided my enemies by my hand, just as waters are divided.” And therefore the name of that place was called Baal-perazim.
12	And they left behind their gods in that place, and so David ordered them to be burned.
13	And then, at another time, the Philistines invaded, and they spread out in the valley.
14	And again, David consulted God. And God said to him: “You shall not ascend after them. Draw away from them. And you shall come against them opposite the balsam trees.
15	And when you hear a sound approaching in the tops of the balsam trees, then you shall go forth to war. For God has gone forth before you, so that he may strike down the army of the Philistines.”
16	Therefore, David did just as God had instructed him. And he struck down the army of the Philistines, from Gibeon as far as Gazera.
17	And the name of David became well-known in all the regions. And the Lord placed the fear of him over all the nations.