1	Then David and the magistrates of the army set apart, for the ministry, the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who were to prophesy with harps and psalteries and cymbals, in accord with their number, having been dedicated to their appointed office.
2	From the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, and Joseph, and Nethaniah, and Asharelah, the sons of Asaph, under the hand of Asaph, prophesying beside the king.
3	Then of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, and Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the hand of their father Jeduthun, who was prophesying with stringed instruments, while confessing and praising the Lord.
4	Also, of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamtiezer, and Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, Mahazioth.
5	All these were the sons of Heman, the seer of the king in the words of God, in order to lift up the horn. And God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.
6	All these, under their father’s hand, were distributed in order to sing in the temple of the Lord, with cymbals and psalteries and harps, in the ministry of the house of the Lord beside the king, specifically, Asaph, and Jeduthun, and Heman.
7	Now the number of these, with their brothers, who were instructing in the song of the Lord, all the teachers, were two hundred eighty-eight.
8	And they cast lots in their turns, the elder equally with the younger, the learned together with the unlearned.
9	And the first lot went forth to Joseph, who was of Asaph; the second went forth to Gedaliah, to him and his sons and his brothers, twelve.
10	The third went to Zaccur, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
11	The fourth went to Izri, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
12	The fifth went to Nethaniah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
13	The sixth went to Bukkiah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
14	The seventh went to Jesharelah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
15	The eighth went to Jeshaiah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
16	The ninth went to Mattaniah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
17	The tenth went to Shimei, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
18	The eleventh went to Azarel, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
19	The twelfth went to Hashabiah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
20	The thirteenth went to Shubael, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
21	The fourteenth went to Mattithiah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
22	The fifteenth went to Jeremoth, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
23	The sixteenth went to Hananiah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
24	The seventeenth went to Joshbekashah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
25	The eighteenth went to Hanani, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
26	The nineteenth went to Mallothi, to his sons and his brothers, twelve.
27	The twentieth went to Eliathah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
28	The twenty-first went to Hothir, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
29	The twenty-second went to Giddalti, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
30	The twenty-third went to Mahazioth, to his sons and brothers, twelve.
31	The twenty-fourth went to Romamtiezer, to his sons and brothers, twelve.