1	Now the divisions of the porters were, from the Korahites: Meshelemiah, the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph.
2	The sons of Meshelemiah: Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth,
3	Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Eliehoenai the seventh.
4	Then the sons of Obededom: Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sachar the fourth, Nethanel the fifth,
5	Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peullethai the eighth. For the Lord had blessed him.
6	Now to his son Shemaiah, there were born sons, rulers of their families. For they were very strong men.
7	Then the sons of Shemaiah were Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad and his brothers, very strong men, as well as Elihu and Semachiah.
8	All these were from the sons of Obededom: they and their sons and brothers, very fit for the ministry, sixty-two from Obededom.
9	Then there were the sons of Meshelemiah and their brothers, very robust men, eighteen.
10	Now, from Hosah, that is, from the sons of Merari: Shimri the leader, for he had not had a firstborn son, and so, because of this, his father had appointed him as the leader,
11	Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth. All these, the sons and brothers of Hosah, were thirteen.
12	These were distributed as porters, so that the leaders of the posts, as well as their brothers, were ministering continually in the house of the Lord.
13	Then they cast lots equally, for both the small and the great, by their families, concerning each one of the gates.
14	And the lot of the east fell out to Shelemiah. But to his son Zechariah, a very prudent and learned man, the northern section was obtained by lot.
15	Truly, Obededom and his sons obtained that to the south, in the part of the house where the council of elders was.
16	Shuppim and Hosah obtained that toward the west, beside the gate that leads to the way of the ascent, one post facing the other.
17	Truly, toward the east there were six Levites, and toward the north there were four per day, and then toward the south similarly there were four each day. And where the council was, there were two and two.
18	Also, in the cells of the porters toward the west, there were four along the way, and two at every cell.
19	These are the divisions of the porters of the sons of Kohath and of Merari.
20	Now Ahijah was over the treasuries of the house of God, and the holy vessels.
21	The sons of Ladan, sons of Gershon: from Ladan, leaders of the families of Ladan and of Gershon: Jehieli.
22	The sons of Jehieli: Zetham and Joel; his brothers were over the treasuries of the house of the Lord,
23	with the Amramites, and Izharites, and Hebronites, and Uzzielites.
24	Now, Shebuel, the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was in the first place over the treasuries,
25	along with his brothers, Eliezer, and his son Rehabiah, and his son Jeshaiah, and his son Joram, and also his son Zichri, and his son Shelomoth.
26	The same Shelomoth and his brothers were over the treasuries of the holy things, which king David sanctified, with the leaders of the families, and the tribunes, and the centurions, and the commanders of the army.
27	These things were from the wars and from the best spoils of the battles, which they had consecrated for the repair and the furnishing of the temple of the Lord.
28	Now all these things were sanctified by Samuel, the seer, and by Saul, the son of Kish, and by Abner, the son of Ner, and by Joab, the son of Zeruiah. All those who had sanctified these were under the hand of Shelomoth and his brothers.
29	Yet truly, Chenaniah and his sons were over the Izharites, for the exterior works concerning Israel, in order to teach and to judge them.
30	Now from the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brothers, one thousand seven hundred very strong men, were in charge of Israel across the Jordan toward the west, in all the works of the Lord, and in the ministry of the king.
31	And the leader of the Hebronites was Jerijah, according to their families and kindred. In the fortieth year of the reign of David, they were numbered, and there were found very strong men in Jazer Gilead.
32	And his brothers of a mature age were two thousand seven hundred leaders of families. Then king David placed them in charge of the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the one half tribe of Manasseh, in all of the ministries of God and of the king.