1	Truly, David had these sons, who were born to him in Hebron: the firstborn Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelite; the second Daniel, from Abigail the Carmelite;
2	the third Absalom, the son of Maacah, daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur; the fourth Adonijah, the son of Haggith;
3	the fifth Shephatiah, of Abital; the sixth Ithream, from his wife Eglah.
4	Therefore, six were born to him in Hebron, where he reigned for seven years and six months. Then he reigned for thirty-three years in Jerusalem.
5	Now in Jerusalem, sons were born to him: Shammua, and Sobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, these four from Bathsheba, the daughter of Ammiel;
6	also Ibhar and Elishama,
7	and Eliphelet, and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
8	indeed also Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine.
9	All these were sons of David, aside from the sons of the concubines. And they had a sister, Tamar.
10	Now the son of Solomon was Rehoboam, from whom Abijah conceived a son, Asa. And from him, there was born Jehoshaphat,
11	the father of Jehoram. And Jehoram conceived Ahaziah, from whom there was born Jehoash.
12	And his son, Amaziah, conceived Azariah. Then Jotham, the son of Azariah,
13	conceived Ahaz, the father of Hezekiah, from whom was born Manasseh.
14	Then too, Manasseh conceived Amon, the father of Josiah.
15	Now the sons of Josiah were these: the firstborn Johanan, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum.
16	From Jehoiakim was born Jeconiah and Zedekiah.
17	The sons of Jeconiah the captive were: Shealtiel,
18	Malchiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, and Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.
19	From Pedaiah, there rose up Zerubbabel and Shimei. Zerubbabel conceived Meshullam, Hananiah, and their sister Shelomith,
20	as well as Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah, Jushab-hesed, five.
21	Now the son of Hananiah was Pelatiah, the father of Jeshaiah, whose son was Rephaiah. And his son was Arnan, from whom was born Obadiah, whose son was Shecaniah.
22	The son of Shecaniah was Shemaiah, whose sons were these: Hattush, and Igal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat, six in number.
23	The sons of Neariah: Elioenai, and Hizkiaj, and Azrikam, three.
24	The sons of Elioenai: Hodaviah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Delaiah, and Anani, seven.