1	And Jehovah will speak to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
2	Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, When a man, a man, there shall be a flowing from his flesh, his flowing unclean.
3	And this shall be his uncleanness in his flowing: his flesh running with his flowing, or his flesh sealed up from his flowing, it is his uncleanness.
4	Every bed which he flowing shall lie upon it, shall be unclean: and every vessel which he shall sit upon it, shall be unclean.
5	And a man who shall touch upon his bed, shall cleanse his garments and shall wash in water, and be unclean till evening.
6	And he sitting upon a vessel which he flowing, shall sit upon it, shall cleanse his garments, and wash in water, and shall be unclean till the evening.
7	And he touching upon the flesh of him flowing, shall wash his garments, and wash in water, and shall be unclean till the evening.
8	And if he flowing shall spit upon the clean; and he washed his garments, and washed in water, and was unclean till the evening.
9	And every seat which he flowing shall ride upon it, shall be unclean.
10	And every one touching upon any thing which shall be under him, shall be unclean till the evening: and he lifting up these things, shall wash his garments, and he washed in water, and was unclean till the evening.
11	And every one which he flowing shall touch upon him (and washed not his hands in water), he washed his garments, and washed in water and was unclean till the evening.
12	And the vessel of earthen which he flowing shall touch upon it, shall be broken: and every vessel of wood shall be washed in water.
13	And when he flowing shall be cleansed from his flowing, and he numbered to him seven days for his cleansing, and he washed his garments and washed his flesh in living water, and was clean.
14	And in the eighth day he shall take to him two turtle-doves, or two sons of the dove, and he came before Jehovah at the door of the tent of appointment, and he gave them to the priest.
15	And the priest did them, one a sin and the one a burnt-offering; and the priest expiated for him before Jehovah from his flowing.
16	And a man, when the effusion of seed shall go forth from him, and he washed in water all his flesh, and was unclean till the evening.
17	And every garment and every akin, which shall be upon it the effusion of seed, and it was washed in water, and was unclean till the evening.
18	And a woman whom a man shall lie with her, with the effusion of seed, and they washed in water, and were unclean till the evening.
19	And when a woman, shall be flowing, and her flowing shall be blood in her flesh, seven days shall she be in her uncleanness: and all touching upon her shall be unclean till the evening.
20	And every thing which she shall lie upon it in her uncleanness, shall be unclean: and every thing which she shall sit upon it shall be unclean.
21	And every one touching upon her bed shall wash his garments; and he washed in water and was unclean till the evening.
22	And every one touching upon any vessel which she shall sit upon it, shall wash his garments, and he washed in water and was unclean till evening.
23	And if it is upon the bed or upon the vessel which she sat upon it, in his touching upon it he shall be unclean till the evening.
24	And if lying down a man shall lie with her and her uncleanness shall be upon him, and he was unclean seven days: and every bed which he shall lie upon, it shall be unclean.
25	And when a woman shall flow a flowing of her blood many days out of the time of her uncleanness, or when she shall flow upon her uncleanness; all the days of the flowing from her uncleanness shall be as the days of her uncleanness: she shall be unclean.
26	Every bed which she shall lie upon it all the days of her flowing, shall be to her as the bed of her uncleanness; and every vessel which she shall sit upon it shall be unclean, as the impurity of her uncleanness.
27	And every one touching upon them shall be unclean, and he washed his garments, and washed in water, and was unclean till the evening.
28	And if she was cleansed from her flowing, and she numbered to her seven days, and afterward she shall be clean.
29	And in the eighth day she shall take to her two turtle-doves, or two sons of the dove, and she brought them to the priest to the door of the tent of appointment.
30	And the priest did the one a sin, and the one a burnt-offering; and the priest expiated for her, before Jehovah, from the flowing of her uncleanness.
31	And ye winnowed the sons of Israel from their uncleanness; and they shall not die in their uncleanness in defiling my dwelling which is in the midst of you.
32	This the law of him flowing, and of whom the effusion of seed shall go forth from him, to be defiled in it:
33	And of her being sick in her uncleanness, and of him flowing his flowing; for the male, and for the female, and for the man who shall lie with her being unclean.