1	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
2	Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, I am Jehovah your God.
3	According to the doings of the land of Egypt where ye dwelt in it, ye shall not do: and according to the doings of the land of Canaan where I brought you there, ye shall not do: and in their laws ye shall not go.
4	My judgments shall ye do, and my laws shall ye watch to go in them; am Jehovah your God.
5	And ye watched my laws and my judgments, which a man shall do them, and he lived in them: I am Jehovah.
6	A man, a man to any remainder of his flesh ye shall not come near to uncover nakedness: I am Jehovah.
7	The nakedness of thy father, and the nakedness of thy mother thou shalt not uncover: it is thy mother, thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.
8	The nakedness of thy father’s wife thou shalt not uncover: it is thy father’s nakedness.
9	The nakedness of thy sister, daughter of thy father or daughter of thy mother, born within or born without, thou shalt not uncover their nakedness.
10	The nakedness of thy son’s daughter, or of thy daughter’s daughter, thou shalt not uncover their nakedness, for theirs is thy nakedness.
11	The nakedness of thy father’s wife’s daughter, begotten of thy father (she is thy sister), thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.
12	The nakedness of thy father’s sister, thou shalt not uncover: she is thy father’s remainder.
13	The nakedness of thy mother’s sister thou shalt not uncover, for she thy mother’s remainder.
14	The nakedness of thy father’s brother thou shalt not uncover: to his wife thou shalt not draw near; she is thine aunt.
15	The nakedness of thy daughter-in-law thou shalt not uncover: she is thy son’s wife, thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.
16	The nakedness of thy brother’s wife thou shalt not uncover: it is thy brother’s nakedness.
17	The nakedness of a woman and her daughter thou shalt not uncover; her son’s daughter, or her daughter’s daughter, thou shalt not take to uncover her nakedness; they are her remainder; it is wickedness.
18	And a wife to her sister thou shalt not take to press to uncover her nakedness with her, in her living.
19	And to a woman in the impurity of her uncleanness, thou shalt not come near, to uncover her nakedness.
20	To thy neighbor’s wife thou shalt not give thy effusion of seed to be defiled with her.
21	And from thy seed thou shalt not give to pass over to Molech, and thou shalt not profane the name of thy God: I am Jehovah.
22	And with a male thou shalt not lie on a woman’s bed: it is abomination.
23	And to any quadruped thou shalt not give thy bed, to be defiled with it: and a woman shall not stand before a quadruped, to lie with it: it is profanation.
24	Ye shall not be defiled in any of these, for in all these the nations were defiled which I send out from your face.
25	And the land shall be defiled: and I will strike iniquity upon it, and the land shall vomit forth its inhabitants.
26	And ye watched these my laws, and my judgments, and ye shall not do from all of these abominations, the native and the stranger sojourning in your midst:
27	For all these abominations did the men of the land which were before you, and the land shall be defiled.
28	And the land shall not vomit you forth in your defiling it, as it vomited forth the nations which were before you.
29	For every one which shall do from all of these abominations, and the souls doing were cut off from the midst of their people.
30	And they watched my watches so as not to do from the laws of abomination which were done before you, and ye shall not be defiled in them: I am Jehovah your God.