1	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
2	Command the sons of Israel, and they shall take to thee pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause the lamp to ascend always.
3	From without the vail of the testimony, in the tent of appointment, shall Aaron arrange it from evening to morning, before Jehovah always: a law forever to your generations.
4	Upon the pure chandelier shall he arrange the lamps before Jehovah always.
5	And take the fine flour and bake it, twelve cakes; two tenths shall be the one cake.
6	And put them two rows, six the row, upon the pure table before Jehovah.
7	And give upon the row pure frankincense, and it was to the bread for a remembrance; a sacrifice to Jehovah.
8	In the day of the Sabbath, in the day of the Sabbath he shall arrange it before Jehovah always, from the sons of Israel, a covenant forever.
9	And it was to Aaron and to his sons, and they shall eat it in the holy place: for it is holy of holies to him from the sacrifices of Jehovah a law forever.
10	And the son of a woman, an Israelitess, will go forth (he the son of a man an Egyptian) into the midst of the sons of Israel: and they will strive in the camp, the son of the Israelitess, and the man the Israelite.
11	And the son of the woman the Israelitess, will curse the name, and will vilify, and they will bring him to Moses: and his mother’s name Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, to the tribe of Dan.
12	And they placed him in watch, to declare distinctly to them by the mouth of Jehovah.
13	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
14	Bring him vilifying, without the camp; and all they hearing, placed their hands upon his head, and all the assembly stoned him.
15	And to the sons of Israel thou shalt speak, saying, When a man, a man shall curse his God and he bore his sin.
16	And he vilifying the name of Jehovah, dying, shall die; stoning, all the assembly shall stone him: as the stranger so the native, in his vilifying the name, he shall die.
17	And when a man shall smite any soul of man, dying, he shall die.
18	And he smiting the soul of cattle, shall recompense soul for soul.
19	And when a man shall give a blemish in his neighbor, as he did so it shall be done to him:
20	Fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth: as he shall give a blemish in a man so it shall be given in him.
21	And be smiting cattle shall recompense it; and he smiting man, shall die.
22	One judgment to you; as the stranger so the native shall it be: for I Jehovah your God.
23	And Moses will speak to the sons of Israel, and they will bring forth him cursing, without the camp, and they will stone him with stone: and the sons of Israel did as Jehovah commanded Moses.