1	Ye shall not make to yourselves vain things, and carving, and a pillar ye shall not set up to you, and a stone of imagery ye shall not give in your land, to worship upon it: for I Jehovah your God.
2	Ye shall watch my Sabbaths, and ye shall fear my holy place: I Jehovah.
3	If ye shall go in my laws and watch my commands, and do them:
4	And I gave your rains in their times, and the land gave its produce, and the tree of the field shall give its fruit:
5	And the threshing time to you reached the vintage, and the vintage shall reach the sowing: and ye ate your bread to satisfying, and ye dwelt in confidence upon your land.
6	And I gave peace in the land and ye lay down and not being terrified: and I caused the evil beast to cease out of the land, and the sword shall not pass through in your land.
7	And ye chased your enemies, and they fell before you to the sword.
8	And five from you chased a hundred, and a hundred from you chased ten thousand: and your enemies fell before you to the sword.
9	And I turned to you and I made you fruitful, and I multiplied you, and I set up my covenant with you.
10	And ye ate of the old, being dry, and ye shall bring forth the old from before the new.
11	And I gave my dwelling in the midst of you: and my soul shall not abhor you.
12	And I walked in the midst of you, and I was to you for God, and ye shall be to me for a people.
13	I Jehovah your God, which brought you out of the land of Egypt, from being servants to them, and I will break the rod of your yoke, and I will cause you to go erect.
14	And if ye will not hear to me, and will not do all these commands;
15	And if ye shall reject my laws, and if your soul shall abhor my judgments so as not to do all my commands, to your breaking my covenant:
16	Surely I will do this to you, and I appointed over you terror, consumption, and burning fever, destroying the eyes and consuming the soul: and ye sowed in vain your seed, and your enemies shall eat it.
17	And I gave my face against you, and ye were slain before your enemies: and they hating you ruled over you, and ye fled and none pursued you.
18	And if yet these ye will not hear to me, I added to chastise you seven times for your sins.
19	And I broke the pride of your strength: and I gave your heaven as iron, and your earth as brass:
20	And your strength shall be exhausted to no purpose: and your land shall not give its produce, and the tree of the land shall not give its fruit.
21	And if ye shall go hostile with me, and shall not be willing to hear to me, and I added upon you seven blows for your sins.
22	And I sent upon you the beast of the field, and it bereaved you of children, and cut off your cattle, and, diminished you, and your ways were laid waste.
23	And if by these ye will not be admonished by me, and ye went hostile with me;
24	And I went also hostile with you, and I struck you, also I, seven for your sins.
25	And I brought upon you the sword to avenge vengeance of the covenant: and ye were gathered into your cities and I sent death in the midst of you, and ye were given into the hand of the enemy.
26	In my breaking to you the rod of bread, and ten women baked your bread in one oven, and they returned your bread by weight: and ye ate, and ye shall not be satisfied.
27	And if by this ye shall not hear to me, and ye went hostile with me;
28	And I went hostile with you in anger; and I chastised you, I also, seven for your sins.
29	And ye ate the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of your daughters shall ye eat.
30	And I laid waste your high places, and I cut off your images, and I gave your carcasses upon the carcasses of your blocks, and my soul abhorred you.
31	And I gave your cities a desert, and I laid waste your holy places, and I will not smell upon the odor of your sweetness.
32	And I laid the land waste, and your enemies were astonished at it, they dwelling upon it.
33	And I will scatter you among the nations, and I drew out after you a sword: and your land was a desert, and your cities shall be a desolation.
34	Then shall the land delight with its Sabbaths, all the days of its desolation, and ye in the land of your enemies: then shall the land rest and delight with its Sabbaths.
35	All the days of its desolation shall it rest, which it did not rest in your Sabbaths, in your dwelling upon it.
36	And they remaining of you, and I brought timidity into their heart in the land of their enemies; and the voice of a driven leaf pursued them, and they fled, fleeing the sword; and they fell, and none pursued.
37	And they faltered each upon his brother, as from before the sword, and none pursued: and there shall be to you no power of standing before your enemies.
38	And ye were destroyed in the nations, and the land of your enemies shall eat you up.
39	And they being left of you, shall pine away in their sin in the land of your enemies, and also in the iniquities of their fathers shall they pine away with them.
40	And they shall confess their iniquity and the iniquity of their fathers, and the transgression which they dealt treacherously against me, and also that they went hostile with me;
41	I also will go hostile with them, and I brought them into the land of their enemies; if then their uncircumcised heart shall be humbled, and then they shall be satisfied with their iniquity;
42	And I remembered my covenant with Jacob, and also my covenant with Isaak, and also my covenant with Abraham will I remember; and I will remember the land.
43	And the land shall be left of them, and shall delight with its Sabbaths in its desolation from them: and they shall be satisfied because of their iniquity, and because they rejected my judgments, and my laws their soul abhorred.
44	And yet also this in their being in the land of their enemies, I did not reject them, and I did not abhor them, to cut them off, and to break my covenant with them: for I Jehovah their God.
45	And I remembered for them the covenant of their beginnings, whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt, in the eyes of the nations to be to them for God: I Jehovah.
46	These the laws, and judgments, and precepts, which Jehovah gave between him, and between the sons of Israel, in mount Sinai, by the hand of Moses.