1	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
2	Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, When a man shall separate a vow by thy estimation, the souls for Jehovah.
3	And thy estimation was the male of the son of twenty years, and even to the son of sixty years; and thy estimation was fifty shekels of silver by the shekel of the holy place.
4	And if it is a female, thy estimation was thirty shekels.
5	And if from the son of five years, and even to the son of twenty years, and thy estimation was, the male, twenty shekels, and for the female, ten shekels.
6	And if from the son of a month, and even to the son of five years, and thy estimation was, the male, five shekels of silver, and for the female, thy estimation, three shekels of silver.
7	And if from the son of sixty years and from above, if a male, thy estimation was fifteen shekels, and for a female, ten shekels.
8	And if he was poor above thy estimation, and he stood before the priest, and the priest estimated him: and according to whose mouth the hand shall attain, the priest estimated him vowing.
9	And if cattle which they shall make an offering from them to Jehovah, all which he shall give from it to Jehovah shall be holy.
10	He shall not change it, and he shall not exchange it, good for evil, or evil for good: and if changing, he shall change cattle for cattle, and the beast, it and its exchange shall be holy.
11	And if any unclean cattle which they shall not bring near from it an offering to Jehovah, and he made the quadruped to stand before the priest.
12	And the priest estimated it between good and between evil: according to thy valuation, O priest, so shall it be.
13	And if redeeming, he shall redeem it, and he shall add its fifth upon thy estimation.
14	And when a man shall consecrate his house holy to Jehovah, and the priest estimated it between good and between evil: as the priest shall estimate it, so shall it stand.
15	And if he consecrating shall redeem his house, and he shall add the fifth of the silver of thy estimation upon it, and it was to him.
16	And if from the field of his possession a man shall consecrate to Jehovah, and thy estimation was according to its seed: the seed of an omer of barley, at fifty shekels of silver.
17	If from the year of jubilee he shall consecrate his field, according to thy estimation it shall stand.
18	And if after the jubilee he shall consecrate his field, and the priest reckoned to him the silver upon the month of the years remaining, till the year of the jubilee, and it was taken away from thy estimation.
19	And if he consecrating it, redeeming, shall redeem the field, and he shall add the fifth of the silver of thy estimation upon it, and it stood to him.
20	And if he shall not redeem the field, and if he sold the field to another man, it shall be redeemed no more.
21	And the field in its going forth in the jubilee was holy to Jehovah, as a consecrated field: to the priest shall be its possession.
22	And if the field of his purchase which is not from the field of his possession he shall consecrate to Jehovah;
23	And the priest reckoned to him the number of thy estimation till the year of jubilee: and he gave thy estimation in that day, holy to Jehovah.
24	In the year of the jubilee the field shall return to whom they bought it from him, to him to whom the possession of the land.
25	And all thy estimation shall be according to the holy shekel: twenty gerahs shall be the shekel.
26	But the first-born which shall be first to Jehovah among the cattle, a man shall not consecrate it; if an ox, if a sheep, it is to Jehovah.
27	And if from unclean cattle, and he redeemed by thy estimation, and he shall add the fifth upon it: and if it shall not be redeemed, and it was sold by thy estimation.
28	But all consecrated which a man shall consecrate to Jehovah from all which is to him, from man and cattle, and from the field of his possession, shall not be sold and shall not be redeemed: every thing consecrated it is holy of holies to Jehovah.
29	Every thing consecrated which shall be consecrated from man, shall not be redeemed: dying, it shall die.
30	And all the tenth of the land from the seed of the land, from the fruit of the tree, is to Jehovah: it is holy to Jehovah.
31	And if redeeming, a man shall redeem from his tenth, he shall add to its fifth upon it.
32	And all the tenth of cattle and sheep, all which shall pass through under the rod, the tenth shall be holy to Jehovah.
33	He shall not search between good to evil, and he shall not exchange it; and if exchanging, he shall exchange it, and it was, it and its exchange shall be holy; it shall not be redeemed.
34	These the commands which Jehovah commanded Moses to the sons of Israel in mount Sinai.