1	And if his offering a sacrifice of peace, if from the oxen he is bringing near, if a male, if a female, blameless shall he bring it near before Jehovah.
2	And he placed his hand upon the head of his offering, and slaughtered it at the door of the tent of appointment: and Aaron’s sons the priests sprinkled the blood upon the altar round about.
3	And he brought from the sacrifice of peace a sacrifice to Jehovah; the fat covering the bowels, and all the fat which is upon the bowels,
4	And the two kidneys, and the fat which is upon them, which is upon the loins, and the lobe upon the liver, upon the kidneys, he shall take away.
5	And Aaron’s sons burnt it upon the altar, upon the burnt-offering which is upon the wood, which is upon the fire: a sacrifice, an odor of sweetness to Jehovah.
6	And if from the sheep his offering for a sacrifice of peace to Jehovah, a male or a female, blameless he shall bring it.
7	If he is bringing a lamb his offering, he brought it before Jehovah.
8	And he placed his hand upon the head of his offering, and slaughtered it before the tent of appointment. And the sons of Aaron sprinkled the blood upon the altar round about.
9	And he brought from the sacrifice of peace a sacrifice to Jehovah: its fat of, the whole fat tail, with the back bone, shall he take it away; and the fat covering the bowels, and all the fat which is upon the bowels,
10	And the two kidneys, and the fat which is upon them, which is upon the loins, and the lobe upon the liver, upon the kidneys, he shall take it away.
11	And the priest burnt it upon the altar: the bread of the sacrifice to Jehovah.
12	And if a goat his offering, and he offered it before Jehovah.
13	And he placed his hand upon his head and slaughtered it before the tent of appointment: and Aaron’s sons sprinkled the blood upon the altar round about.
14	And he brought from it his offering, a sacrifice to Jehovah; the fat covering the bowels, and all the fat which is upon the bowels,
15	And the two kidneys, and the fat which is upon them, which is upon the loins, and the lobe upon the liver, upon the kidneys, he will take it away.
16	And the priest burnt them upon the altar; the bread of the sacrifice for an odor of sweetness: all the fat to Jehovah.
17	A law forever to your generations in all your dwellings, all the fat and all the blood, ye shall not eat.