1	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
2	When a soul shall sin and cover a transgression against Jehovah, and lie against his neighbor in a deposit, or in trust of the hand, or in robbery, or oppressing his neighbor;
3	Or he found the lost thing, and lied concerning it, and swore upon falsehood; upon one of all which the man will do, for sinning in them.
4	And it was when he shall sin and being guilty, and he turned back the robbery which he robbed, or the oppression which he oppressed, or the deposit which was deposited with him, or the lost thing which he found,
5	Or from all which he shall swear upon it for falsehood; and he recompensed it in its head, and he shall add its fifth part upon it, and he shall give it to whom it is to him, in the day of his trespass.
6	And he shall bring his trespass to Jehovah, a blameless ram from the sheep by thy estimation, for the trespass, to the priest.
7	And the priest expiated for him before Jehovah; and it was forgiven to him for one from all which he shall do for being guilty in it.
8	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
9	Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This the law of the burnt-offering: it is the burnt-offering upon its burning upon the altar all the night till the morning; and the fire of the altar shall burn upon it.
10	And the priest put on his garment of thread, and his drawers of thread he shall put upon his flesh, and he took up the ashes which the fire shall consume, with the burnt-offering upon the altar, and he put it beside the altar.
11	And he put off his garments and put on other garments, and brought forth the ashes without the camp, to a clean place.
12	And the fire upon the altar shall burn in it; and it shall not go out: and the priest burnt wood upon it in the morning, in the morning, and he arranged upon it the burnt-offering; and burnt upon it the fat of the peace.
13	The fire shall always burn upon the altar; it shall not go out.
14	And this the law of the gift: the sons of Aaron bringing it before Jehovah, before the altar.
15	And he took up from it his handful from the fine flour of the gift, and from its oil, and all the frankincense which is upon the gift, and he burnt upon the altar, an odor of sweetness, a remembrance to Jehovah.
16	And the remainder from it Aaron and his sons shall eat: unleavened shall it be eaten in the holy place; in the enclosure of the tent of appointment they shall eat it.
17	It shall not be cooked leavened. I gave it their portion from my sacrifices. It is holy of holies, as the sin and the trespass.
18	Every male of the sons of Aaron shall eat it A law forever for your generations, from the sacrifices of Jehovah; all which touch upon them shall be holy.
19	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
20	This the offering of Aaron and his sons, which they shall bring to Jehovah, in the day of anointing him; the tenth of the ephah of fine flour a perpetual gift, its half in the morning and its half in the evening.
21	Upon a frying-pan with oil it shall be made; being dipped, thou shalt bring it in the cookings of the gift, in bits thou shalt bring near, an odor of sweetness to Jehovah.
22	And the priest being anointed, of his sons, instead of him shall do it: a law forever to Jehovah: it shall be wholly burnt.
23	And every gift of the priest shall be wholly burnt: it shall not be eaten.
24	And Jehovah will speak to Moses saying,
25	Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, This the law of the sin: in the place where the burnt-offering shall be slaughtered, the sin shall be slaughtered before Jehovah: it is holy of holies.
26	The priest offering it for sin, shall eat it: in the holy place shall it be eaten, in the enclosure of the tent of appointment.
27	Every one touching upon its flesh shall be consecrated: and when shall be sprinkled from its blood upon his garment, what shall be sprinkled upon it thou shalt wash in the holy place.
28	And the earthen vessel in which it shall be boiled, shall be broken: and if it was boiled in a brass vessel, it was scoured and washed in water.
29	Every male among the priests shall eat it: it is holy of holies.
30	And all sin, the blood of which shall be brought into the tent of appointment to expiate in the holy place, shall not be eaten: it shall be burnt in fire.