1	Paul, sent, (not from men, neither by man, but by Jesus Christ, and God the Father, having raised him from the dead;)
2	And with me all the brethren, to the churches of Galatia:
3	Grace to you and peace from God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ,
4	Having given himself for our sins, that he might take us away out of this present evil time, according to the will of God and our Father:
5	To whom the glory for the time of times. Amen.
6	I wonder that so quickly are ye transferred from him having called you by the grace of Christ to another good news:
7	Which is not another; except some are troubling you, and wishing to pervert the good news of Christ.
8	But also if we, or a messenger from heaven, announce good news to you, more than what: we have announced to you, let him be anathema.
9	As we said before, also now say I again, If any announce to you good news above what ye received, let him be anathema.
10	For now do I persuade men, or God? or seek I to please men? for if I had yet pleased men, I should not have been the servant of Christ.
11	But I make known to you, brethren, the good news announced by me that it is not according to man.
12	For I neither received it from man, neither was I taught, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ.
13	For ye heard of my turning about when in Judaism, that in excess I drove out the church of God, and laid it waste:
14	And I advanced in Judaism above many like in my race, being more abundantly zealous of paternal traditions.
15	And when God was contented, having separated me from my mother’s womb, and having called me, by his grace,
16	To reveal his Son in me, that I might announce him the good news in the nations; I consulted not with flesh and blood:
17	Neither went I up to Jerusalem to them sent before me; but I went away to Arabia, and again returned to Damascus.
18	Then after three years I came up to Jerusalem to examine Peter, and remained with him fifteen days.
19	And other of the sect I saw not, except James the Lord’s brother.
20	And what I write to you, behold, before God, that I lie not.
21	Then came I to the regions of Syria and Cilicia;
22	And was unknown by face to the churches of Judea there in Christ.
23	And only they had heard, That he then driving us out, now announces the good news, the faith which he then felt the absence of.
24	And they glorified God in me.