1	O Unwise Galatians, who has cast a spell upon you, not to obey the truth, to whom before the eyes Jesus Christ was written beforehand, crucified in you?
2	This only wish I to learn from you, Received ye the Spirit from the works of the law, or from the hearing of faith?
3	Are ye so unwise? having begun in the Spirit, are ye now completed in the flesh?
4	Suffered ye so many things in vain? if yet also in vain.
5	He therefore furnishing you the Spirit, and working the powers in you, is it from the works of the law, or from the hearing of faith?
6	As Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him for justice.
7	Know ye therefore that they of faith, these are sons of Abraham.
8	And the writing, foreseeing that of faith God justifies the nations, announced beforehand the good news to Abraham, That in thee shall all nations be praised.
9	So that they of faith are praised with faithful Abraham.
10	For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse: for it has been written, Cursed every one who remains not in all written in the book of the law to do them.
11	And that none is justified in the law before God, is manifest: for, The just shall live of faith.
12	And the law is not of faith: but, The man having done them shall live in them.
13	Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having been a curse for us: for it has been written, Cursed every one hanging upon a tree:
14	That the praise of Abraham might be to the nations in Christ Jesus; that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.
15	Brethren, I speak according to man; Although a man’s covenant, having been confirmed, none annuls, or orders an addition.
16	And to Abraham were the promises spoken, and to his seed. He says not, And to seeds, as to many; but as to one: And to thy seed, who is Christ.
17	And I say this, the covenant confirmed before by God in Christ, the law, having been after four hundred and thirty years, does not annul, to neglect the promise.
18	For if of the law the inheritance, no more of promise: and God has favored Abraham by promise.
19	What then the law? It was added on account of transgressions, (till the seed come to whom it was promised;) appointed by angels in the hand of a mediator.
20	And a mediator is not of one, and God is one.
21	The law then against the promises of God? It may not be: for if a law had been given able to make alive, truly justice would be by the law.
22	But the writing shut up all things under sin, that the promise from faith of Jesus Christ might be given to the believing.
23	And before faith came, we were guarded under the law, shut up to faith about to be revealed.
24	So that the law was our preceptor towards Christ, that we might be justified from faith.
25	And faith having come, we are no more under a preceptor.
26	For we are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus.
27	For as many of you as were immersed into Christ have put on Christ.
28	There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither servant nor free, there is neither male and female: for ye are all one in Christ Jesus.
29	And if ye of Christ, then are ye Abraham’s seed, and heirs according to the promise.