1	And I say, for as long time as the heir is a child, he differs nothing from a servant, being lord of all;
2	But is under guardians and stewards until the time appointed by the father.
3	So also we, when we were children, were subjugated under the world’s elements:
4	And when the completion of the time was come, God sent his Son, born of woman, born under the law,
5	That he might redeem them under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons.
6	And because ye are sons, God sent forth the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father.
7	So that thou art no more a servant, but a son: and if a son, also an heir of God through Christ.
8	But then truly, not having known God, ye were in a servile condition to them not being gods by nature.
9	And now, having known God, and rather known of God, how turn ye again to the weak and poor elements, to which again ye wish anew to be in a servile condition.
10	Ye observe narrowly days, and months, and times, and years.
11	I am afraid of you, lest I have been wearied for you in vain.
12	Be ye as I, for I also as you, brethren, I pray you: ye injured me nothing.
13	And ye know that through weakness of the flesh I announced the good news to you before.
14	And my temptation in my flesh, ye counted not as nothing, nor spurned; but as an angel of God ye received me, as Christ Jesus.
15	What then was your happiness? for I testify to you, that, if possible, having plucked out your eyes, ye would have given to me.
16	Have I then been your enemy, speaking truth to you.
17	They are zealous for you, not well; but they wish to exclude you, that ye might be zealous for them.
18	And good to be zealous always in good, and not only in my being present with you.
19	My children, for whom I am again in travail until Christ be formed in you,
20	And I would be present with you now, and change my voice; for I am perplexed about you.
21	Tell me, those wishing to be under the law, do ye not hear the law?
22	For it has been written, that Abraham had two sons, one by the bondmaid, and one by the free.
23	But he truly of the bondmaid was born according to the flesh; and he of the free through the promise.
24	Which things are spoken figuratively: for these are the two covenants; one truly from mount Sinai, begetting to bondage, which is Agar.
25	For Agar is mount Sinai in Arabia, and now stands in the same rank With Jerusalem, and is in a servile condition with her children.
26	But Jerusalem above is free, which is mother of us all.
27	For it has been written, Be cheered, O barren, bearing not; break out and cry, she travailing not: for many more the children of the desolate than she having a husband.
28	And we, brethren, as Isaac, are children of promise.
29	But as then he born according to the flesh drove out him according to the Spirit, so also now.
30	But what says the writing? Cast out the bondmaid and her son; for the son of the bondmaid shall not inherit with the son of the free.
31	Therefore, brethren, we are not children of the bondmaid, but of the free.