1	Therefore in the liberty which Christ has freed us, stand ye, and be not again held in the yoke of servitude.
2	Behold, I Paul say to you, that if ye be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing.
3	And again to any man circumcised, I testify, that he is debtor to do the whole law.
4	Ye were neglected from Christ, whoever are justified in the law; ye have fallen from grace.
5	For we in spirit by faith expect the hope of justice.
6	For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision has any power, nor uncircumcision; but faith being energetic through love.
7	Ye were running well; who hindered you not to obey the truth?
8	The confidence not from him calling you.
9	A little leaven leavens the whole mixture.
10	I have trusted to you in the Lord, that ye will have nothing different in mind; and he troubling you shall bear judgment, whoever he be.
11	And I, brethren, if I yet proclaim circumcision, why am I. yet driven out? therefore the offence of the cross is left unemployed.
12	I would also they shall be cut off who having risen up against you.
13	For ye were called to liberty brethren; only not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but through love serve ye one another.
14	For all the law is completed in one word, in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.
15	And if ye bite and devour one another, see ye that ye be not laid waste by one another.
16	And I say, Walk in Spirit, and complete not the desire of the flesh.
17	For the flesh desires against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh: and these are adverse to one another: that not the things ye would, these should ye do.
18	And if ye are led by the Spirit, ye are not under the law.
19	And the works of the flesh are manifest, which are; Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, licentiousness,
20	Idolatry, charm, enmities, strifes, jealousies, wraths, intriguings, seditions, sects.
21	Envyings, slaughters, drunkenness, revelries, and the like: to these which I foretell you, as I have also said before, that they doing such shall not inherit the kingdom of God.
22	And the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, goodness, faith,
23	Meekness, temperance: against such is no law.
24	And they of Christ have crucified the flesh with the passions and desires.
25	If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit.
26	Let us not be vainglorious, provoking one another, envying one another.