1	If therefore ye be risen with Christ, seek things above, where Christ is sitting on the right hand of God.
2	Think of things above, and not upon those upon the earth.
3	For ye died, and your life has been hid with Christ in God.
4	When Christ shall be manifested, our life, then also ye with him shall be made manifest in glory.
5	Therefore kill your members that are upon the earth; fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry:
6	For these comes the Wrath of God upon the sons of disobedience:
7	In which also ye then walked, when ye lived in them.
8	And now ye also put them all away; anger, wrath, badness, slander, shameful language out of your mouth.
9	Lie not to one another, having put off the old man with big deeds;
10	And having put on the new, being renewed in knowledge according to the image of him having created him:
11	Where no Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, foreigner, Scythian, servant, free: but Christ all things, and in all.
12	Put on therefore, as the chosen of God, holy and beloved, bowels of compassions, kindnesses, humility, meekness, longsuffering;
13	(Bearing one another, propitiating one another, if any have a complaint against any: as also Christ propitiated for you, so also ye.)
14	And over all these, love, which is the bond of completion.
15	And let the peace of God act as umpire in your hearts, to which also, ye were called in one body: and be grateful.
16	Let the word of Christ dwell in, you richly; teaching and reminding one another in all wisdom, playing with harps, and songs, and spiritual odes, with grace singing in your hearts to the Lord.
17	And all whatever you do in word and in work, all things in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him.
18	Women, place yourselves under your own husbands, as was permitted in the Lord.
19	Men, love ye the wives, and be not embittered against them.
20	Children, listen to parents in all things: for this is pleasing to the Lord.
21	Fathers, irritate not your children, lest they be discouraged.
22	Servants, listen ye in all things to lords according to the flesh; not in eyeservice as pleasing men; but in simplicity of heart, fearing God:
23	And all, whatever ye do, work ye from the soul, as to the Lord, and not to men;
24	Knowing that from the Lord ye shall receive the reward of inheritance: for ye serve the Lord Christ.
25	And he acting with injustice shall be taken care of for what he did unjustly: and there is no distinction of persons.