1	Woe to her that is filthy and polluted, To the oppressing city!
2	She hearkened not the voice, She received not correction; She trusted not in the LORD, She drew not near to her God.
3	Her princes in the midst of her are roaring lions; Her judges are wolves of the desert, They leave not a bone for the morrow.
4	Her prophets are wanton And treacherous persons; Her priests have profaned that which is holy, They have done violence to the law.
5	The LORD who is righteous is in the midst of her, He will not do unrighteousness; Every morning doth He bring His right to light, It faileth not; But the unrighteous knoweth no shame.
6	I have cut off nations, Their corners are desolate; I have made their streets waste, So that none passeth by; Their cities are destroyed, so that there is no man, So that there is no inhabitant.
7	I said: ‘Surely thou wilt fear Me, Thou wilt receive correction; So her dwelling shall not be cut off, Despite all that I have visited upon her’; But they betimes corrupted all their doings.
8	Therefore wait ye for Me, saith the LORD, Until the day that I rise up to the prey; For My determination is to gather the nations, That I may assemble the kingdoms, To pour upon them Mine indignation, Even all My fierce anger; For all the earth shall be devoured With the fire of My jealousy.
9	For then will I turn to the peoples A pure language, That they may all call upon the name of the LORD, To serve Him with one consent.
10	From beyond the rivers of Ethiopia Shall they bring My suppliants, Even the daughter of My dispersed, As Mine offering.
11	In that day shalt thou not be ashamed for all thy doings, Wherein thou hast transgressed against Me; For then I will take away out of the midst of thee Thy proudly exulting ones, And thou shalt no more be haughty In My holy mountain.
12	And I will leave in the midst of thee An afflicted and poor people, And they shall take refuge in the name of the LORD.
13	The remnant of Israel shall not do iniquity, Nor speak lies, Neither shall a deceitful tongue be found in their mouth; For they shall feed and lie down, And none shall make them afraid.
14	Sing, O daughter of Zion, Shout, O Israel; Be glad and rejoice with all the heart, O daughter of Jerusalem.
15	The LORD hath taken away thy judgments, He hath cast out thine enemy; The King of Israel, even the LORD, is in the midst of thee; Thou shalt not fear evil any more.
16	In that day it shall be said to Jerusalem: ‘Fear thou not; O Zion, let not thy hands be slack.
17	The LORD thy God is in the midst of thee, A Mighty One who will save; He will rejoice over thee with joy, He will be silent in His love, He will joy over thee with singing.’
18	I will gather them that are far from the appointed season, who are of thee, That hast borne the burden of reproach.
19	Behold, at that time I will deal with all them that afflict thee; And I will save her that is lame, And gather her that was driven away; And I will make them to be a praise and a name, Whose shame hath been in all the earth.
20	At that time will I bring you in, And at that time will I gather you; For I will make you to be a name and a praise Among all the peoples of the earth, When I turn your captivity before your eyes, Saith the LORD.