1	Indeed it is not profitable to me to boast. For I will come to visions and Revelation of the Lord.
2	I knew a man in Christ before fourteen years, (whether in the body, I know not; whether out of the body, I know not: God knows;) such a one having been carried off even to the third heaven.
3	And I knew such a man, (whether in the body, whether out of the body, I know not: God knows;)
4	That he was carried off into paradise, and heard words not to be told, which it was not permitted man to speak.
5	Of such a one will I boast: and of myself I will not boast, except in my weakness.
6	For if I be willing to boast, I shall not be mad; for the truth will I say: and I spare, lest any reckon for me above what he sees me, or what he hears of me.
7	And lest I be lifted up by the eminence of Revelation, a thorn in the flesh was given me, a messenger of Satan, that he might cuff me, lest I be lifted up.
8	For this thrice besought I the Lord, that it remove away from me.
9	And he said to me, My grace suffices thee: for my power is perfected in weakness. Therefore very willingly will I boast rather in my weaknesses, that Christ’s power may lodge upon me.
10	Therefore am I contented in weaknesses, in reproaches, in necessities in expulsions, in extremities for Christ: for when I am weak, then am I strong.
11	I have been mad boasting; ye forced me: for I ought to have been recommended by you: for I was not greatly inferior to the sent, if also I am nothing.
12	Surely the signs of one sent was wrought in you in all patience, in signs, and wonders, and powers.
13	For what is it which ye were inferior to the rest of the churches, except that I myself acted not with negligence to you? favor me for this injustice.
14	Behold, I have prepared to come to you the third time; and I will not act with negligence to you: for I seek not your things, but you: for children ought not to treasure up for parents, but parents for children.
15	And I very willingly will expend and be expended for your souls; if also loving you more abundantly, the less I should be loved.
16	And let it be, I overloaded you not: but being dexterous, I took you by contrivance.
17	Not any of whom I have sent to you have I by him taken advantage of you.
18	I called for Titus, and sent with a brother. Has Titus taken advantage of you? walked we not in the same spirit? not in the same steps?
19	Again, think ye that we excuse ourselves to you? before God in Christ we speak: and all things, beloved, for your building up.
20	For I am afraid, lest somehow, having come, I find you not such; as I will, and I find you such as ye wish not: lest somehow, strifes, jealousies, wraths, intrigues, calumnies, whisperings, inflations, derangements:
21	Lest, coming again, my God should humble me with you, and I shall mourn for many of them having sinned before, and not having repented for uncleanness, and fornication, and licentiousness which they committed.