1	For we know that if our earthly house of the tent were dissolved, we have a building of God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.
2	For also in this we groan, longing to have our dwelling from heaven put on:
3	If also being even clothed we shall not be found naked.
4	For also being in the tent we groan, being loaded: since we wish not to be unclothed, but to be clothed, that the mortal should be swallowed up of life.
5	And he having brought us about to this same, God, he having also given us the pledge of the Spirit.
6	Therefore being always confident, and knowing that, being at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord:
7	(For we walk by faith, and not by external appearance:)
8	And we are confident, and are contented rather to be absent from the body, and to be at home in the Lord.
9	Wherefore also let us seek the honour, whether being at home, whether being absent, to be pleasing to him.
10	For we must all be made manifest before the judgment seat of Christ; that each might receive the things for the body, for what he did, good or bad.
11	Knowing therefore the fear of the Lord, we persuade men; and we are made manifest to God; and I hope also to have been made manifest to your consciences.
12	For not again do we recommend ourselves to you, but giving you occasion for boasting over us, that ye might have for them boasting in face, and not in heart.
13	For whether we be beside ourselves, to God: or be of sound mind, to you.
14	For the love of Christ holds us together; having judged this, that if one died for all, then all dead:
15	And he died for all, that the living no more live to themselves, but to him having died for them, and having risen.
16	So that we from now know none according to the flesh: and if also we have known Christ according to the flesh, but now we know no more.
17	So that if any in Christ, a new creation: old things have passed away; behold, all have become new.
18	And all things of God, having reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and given us the service of reconciliation;
19	For as God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not reckoning to them their faults; and having set in us the word of reconciliation.
20	For Christ therefore are we ambassadors, as of God beseeching by us: we pray for the sake of Christ, be ye reconciled to God.
21	For him not knowing sin, he made sin for us; that we might be the justice of God in him.