1	And we make known to you, brethren, the grace of God given in the churches of Macedonia;
2	That in much proof of pressure the abundance of their joy and their poverty according to depth abounded to the abundance of their simplicity.
3	For according to power, I testify, and above power chosen voluntarily;
4	Praying us with much entreaty that we receive the grace and participation of the service for saints.
5	And not as we hoped, but they gave themselves first to the Lord, and to us by the will of God.
6	So that we besought Titus, that as he began before, so also he would complete to us this grace also.
7	But as ye abound in everything, in faith, and in word, and in knowledge, and in all care, and in love from you to us, that also ye abound in this grace.
8	I speak not according to command, but by care of others, trying also the purity of your love.
9	For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that for you he was in a state of beggary, being rich; that ye in his poverty might be rich.
10	And in this I give an opinion: for this is profitable to you, which no only to do, but to will, ye began before from last year.
11	And now also complete ye the doing; that as a forwardness to will so also to complete, out of what is possessed.
12	For if a forwardness lie before, according as any has, it is acceptable, not as he has not.
13	For not that ease to others, and pressure to you:
14	But of equality, now in this time your abundance for their want, that also their abundance be for your want: that there be equality:
15	As has been written, He to whom much, was not in excess; and he to whom little, was not diminished.
16	And grace to God, having given the same care for you in the heart of Titus.
17	For truly he received the entreaty; and being more earnest, he went forth voluntarily to you.
18	And we sent with him the brother whose approbation in the good news through all the churches;
19	And not only, but also the hand stretched out by the churches for our fellow-traveler with this grace, served by us to the glory of the same Lord, and to your forwardness:
20	Prepared for this, lest any blame us in this abundance served by us:
21	Providing good things beforehand, not only before the Lord, but also before men.
22	And we sent with them our brother, whom we proved in many things being earnest many times, and now much more earnest, with much confidence in you.
23	Whether for Titus, my companion and co-worker to you: or our brethren, the sent of the churches, the glory of Christ.
24	Therefore the manifestations of your love, and of your boasting for us, shew ye to them, and to the face of the churches.