1	The words of Amos who was among the shepherds of Tekoa, which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah king of Judah, in the days of Jeroboam son of Joash king of Israel, two years before the shaking.
2	And he will say, Jehovah will cry out from Zion, and from Jerusalem he will give his voice; and the habitations of the shepherds mourned, and the head of Carmel was dried up.
3	Thus said Jehovah: For three transgressions of Damascus, and for four, I will not turn back for their threshing Gilead with threshing-sledges of iron.
4	And I sent fire into the house of Hazael, and it shall devour the palaces of the son of Hadad.
5	And I broke the bar of Damascus, and I cut off the inhabitants of the valleys of vanity, and him taking hold of the rod of the house of delight: and the people of Aram were carried away captive to a walled place said Jehovah.
6	Thus said Jehovah: For three transgressions of Gaza, and for four, I will not turn it back, for their carrying away captive the whole captivity to deliver over to Edom.
7	And I sent a fire upon the walls of Gaza, and it shall devour its palaces.
8	And I cut off the inhabitants of Ashdod, and him holding the rod from Ashkelon; and I turned back my hand against Ekron: and the remnant of the rovers perished, said the Lord Jehovah.
9	Thus said Jehovah: For three transgressions of Tyre, and for four, I will not turn it back, for their delivering over the whole captivity to Edom, and they remembered not the covenant of their brethren:
10	And I sent a fire upon the walls of Tyre and it shall consume her palaces.
11	Thus said Jehovah: For three transgressions of Edom, and for four, I will not turn it back: for his pursuing his brother with the sword, and he destroyed his compassions, and his anger will rend forever, and his wrath was observed perpetually.
12	And I sent a fire upon Teman and it devoured the palaces of Bozrah.
13	Thus said Jehovah: For three transgressions of the sons of Ammon, and for four, I will not turn it back: for their cleaving asunder those conceiving of Gilead to increase their bound.
14	And I kindled a fire in the walls of Rabbah, and it devoured her palaces with a loud noise in the day of war, with a storm in the day of whirlwind:
15	And their king went into captivity, he and his chiefs together, said Jehovah.