1	Thus said Jehovah: For three transgressions of Moab, and for four, I will not turn it back, for they burnt the bones of the king of Edom into lime:
2	And I will send a fire upon Moab and it devoured the palaces of the cities, and Moab died with tumult, with a loud noise and with the voice of the trumpet:
3	And I cut off the judge from the midst of her, and I will slay all her chiefs with him, said Jehovah.
4	Thus said Jehovah: For three transgressions of Judah, and for four, I will not turn it back from him, for their rejecting the instructions of Jehovah, and they watched not his laws, and their lies caused them to err which their fathers went after them.
5	And I sent a fire upon Judah, and it devoured the palaces of Jerusalem.
6	Thus said Jehovah: For three transgressions of Israel, and for four, I will not turn it back, for their selling the just one for silver and the needy for shoes;
7	Panting for the dust of the earth upon the head of the poor, and they will turn away the way of the humble: and a man and his father will go to the same young girl to profane my holy name:
8	And upon garments taken in pledge they will turn by every altar, and they will drink the wine of the amerced in the house of their God.
9	And I destroyed the Amorite from their face, whom his height as the height of the cedars, and he was strong as the oaks; and I will destroy his fruit from above and his roots from beneath.
10	And I brought you up from the land of Egypt, and I will cause you to come into the desert forty years to possess the land of the Amorite.
11	And I will raise up from your sons for prophets, and from your young men for Nazarites. Is it not even this, ye sons of Israel? says Jehovah.
12	And ye will give the Nazarites wine to drink; and ye commanded to the prophets, saying, Ye shall not prophesy.
13	Behold, I am pressed under you as a wagon will be pressed being filled with the sheaf to it.
14	And flight perished from the swift; and the strong shall not strengthen his power, and the mighty shall not save his soul.
15	And he holding the bow shall not stand; and the swift with his feet shall not escape: and he riding the horse shall not save his soul.
16	And he strong of heart among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day, says Jehovah.