1	And a reed was given me like rod: and the messenger stood, saying, Arise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and them worshipping in it.
2	And the court-yard that without the temple throw out, and thou mayest not measure it: for it was given to the nations: and the holy city shall they tread under foot forty-two months.
3	And I will give to my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy one thousand two hundred and sixty days, surrounded with sackcloth.
4	These are the two olive trees, and the two chandeliers which having stood before the God of the earth.
5	And if any would injure them, fire goes forth out of their mouth, and devours their enemies: and if any would injure them, so must he be put to death.
6	These have power to shut up heaven, that the rain should not wet in the days of their prophecy: and they have power over the waters to turn them to blood, and to strike the earth with every blow, as often as they wish.
7	And when they should finish their testimony, the wild beast coming up out of the abyss shall wage war with them, and shall conquer them, and kill them.
8	And their slain bodies upon the spacious way of the great city, which is called spiritually Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified.
9	And they from the people and tongues and nations shall see their slain bodies three days and a half, and they shall not suffer their slain bodies to be put into tombs.
10	And they dwelling upon the earth shall rejoice over them, and shall be gladdened, and shall send gifts to one another; for these two prophets tortured them dwelling upon the earth.
11	And after three days and a half the Spirit of life from God came upon them, and they stood upon their feet: and great fear fell upon those beholding them.
12	And they heard a great voice from heaven saying to them, Come up here. And they went up to heaven in the cloud; and their enemies beheld them.
13	And in that hour was a great earthquake, and a tenth of the city fell, and there were slain in the shaking seven thousand names of men: and the rest were terrified, and they gave glory to the God of heaven.
14	The second woe passed away; behold, the third woe comes swiftly.
15	And the seventh angel sounded the trumpet; and great voices were in heaven, saying, The kingdoms of the world were our Lord’s, and his Christ’s; and he shall reign for ever and ever.
16	And the twenty four elders, which before God sitting upon their thrones, fell upon their faces, and worshipped God,
17	Saying, We return thanks to thee, O Lord God, the Omnipotent Ruler, who being, and who was, and who coming; for thou hast taken thy great power, and reigned.
18	And the nations were angry, and thy wrath came, and the time of the dead, to be judged, and to give reward to thy servants the prophets, and to the holy, and to them fearing thy name, the small and great; and to destroy them destroying the earth.
19	And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and the ark of his covenant was seen in his temple: and there were lightnings, and voices, and thunders, and shakings, and great hail.