1	And I heard a great voice out of the temple saving to the seven angels, Go forward, and pour out the vials of the wrath of God in the earth.
2	And the first went forth, and poured out his vial upon the earth; and a bad and evil sore was upon the men having the stamp of the wild beast, and them worshipping his image.
3	And the second angel poured out his vial into the sea; and it was blood as of a dead body: and every living soul died in the sea.
4	And the third angel poured out his vial into the rivers, and into the fountains of waters; and it was blood.
5	And I heard the angel of the waters saying, Just, O Lord, art thou, who being, and who was, and who wilt be, for thou didst judge these things.
6	For they poured out the blood of the holy, and of the prophets, and thou didst give them blood to drink; for they are worthy.
7	And I heard another from the altar saying, Yes, O Lord God, the Omnipotent Ruler, true and just thy judgments.
8	And the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun; and it was given him to parch up men with fire.
9	And men were parched up with great heat, and they blasphemed the name of God, having power over these blows: and they repented not to give him glory.
10	And the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the throne of the wild beast; and his kingdom was darkened; and they pressed their tongues for pain,
11	And they blasphemed the God of heaven for their pains and for their sores, and they repented not of their work.
12	And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates; and its water was dried up, that the way of the kings of the risings of the sun might be prepared.
13	And I saw out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the wild beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits like frogs.
14	For they are the spirits of demons, doing signs, to go out upon all the kings of the earth and of the whole habitable globe, to gather them together for the war of that great day of God, the Omnipotent Ruler.
15	(Behold, I come as a thief. Happy he watching, and keeping his garments, lest he walk naked, and they see his shame.)
16	And he gathered them together in a place called in Hebrew Armageddon.
17	And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air; and a great voice went out from the temple of heaven, from the throne, saying, It is done.
18	And there were voices, and thunders, and lightnings; and there was a great shaking, such as was not since the time men were upon earth, such a great shaking.
19	And the great city was in three parts, and the cities of the nations fell: and great Babylon was remembered before God, to give her the cup of the wine of the wrath of his anger.
20	And every island fled, and the mountains were not found.
21	And great hail, as the weight of a talent, comes down from heaven upon men: and men blasphemed God for the blow of the hail; for its blow is exceedingly great.