1	And after these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great power; and the earth was enlightened from his glory.
2	And he cried with a great, strong voice, saying, She fell, Babylon the great fell, and became the dwelling of devils, and the prison of every unclean spirit, and the prison of every unclean and detested bird.
3	For of the wrath of the wine of her fornication have all nations drunk, and the kings of the earth were debauched with her, and the wholesale merchants of the earth were rich from the power of her luxury.
4	And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her, my people, that ye partake not of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues.
5	For her sins were followed even to heaven, and God remembered her injustices.
6	Give back to her as also she gave back to you, and double to her double things according to her works: in the cup in which she mixed, mix to her double.
7	As much as she glorified herself, and led an insolent life, give her so much torture and grief: for in her heart she says, I sit a queen, and am no widow, and I should see no grief.
8	Therefore in one day shall her blows come, death, and grief, and famine; and she shall be burned down in fire: for strong the Lord God judging her.
9	And weep for her, and lament over her, shall the kings of the earth having been debauched with her, and having led an insolent life, when they see the smoke of her burning,
10	Standing from far off for fear of her torture, saying, Woe, woe, the great city Babylon, the strong city! for in one hour thy judgment came.
11	And the wholesale merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her; for their cargo will none purchase more:
12	The cargo of gold, and silver, and precious stones, and pearls, and fine linen, and purple, and silk, and scarlet, and all fir wood, and every ivory vessel, and every vessel of precious wood, and of iron, and brass, and marble,
13	And cinnamon, and perfumes, and ointment, and frankincense, and wine, and oil, and the finest wheat flour, and wheat, and cattle, and sheep, and of horses, and of chariots, and of bodies, and of souls of men,
14	And the harvest fruit of the eager desire of thy soul departed from thee, and all fat and brilliant things departed from thee, and thou shouldest find them no more.
15	The wholesale merchants of these things, having been rich from her, shall stand from far off for fear of her torture, weeping and mourning,
16	And saying, Woe, woe, the great city, surrounded with fine linen, and purple, and scarlet, and adorned with gold, and precious stones, and pearls! for in one hour was so great riches laid waste.
17	And every pilot, and all the crowd upon ships, and the sailors, and as many as work the sea, stood from far off,
18	And cried, seeing the smoke of her burning, saying, What like the great city!
19	And they cast earth upon their heads, and cried, weeping and mourning, saying, Woe, woe, the great city, in which all having ships in the sea were rich by her value! for in one hour was she rendered a desert.
20	Rejoice over her, O heaven, and the holy sent, and the prophets; for God judged your judgment of her.
21	And one strong angel lifted up a stone as a great millstone, and cast into the sea, saying, Thus with excitement shall Babylon, the great city, be cast down, and be found no more.
22	And the voice of harp players, and musicians, and flute players, and trumpeters, should be heard in thee no more; and every artist of every art be found no more in thee; and the voice of the millstone should be heard no more in thee;
23	And the light of the lamp no more should shine in thee; and the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride, should no more be beard in thee: for thy wholesale merchants were leaders of the earth: for with thy charms were all nations led astray.
24	And in her was found the blood of the prophets, and of the holy, and of all those slain upon the earth.