1	To the messenger of the Ephesian church write: Thus says he holding the seven stars in his right hand, he walking about in the midst of the seven golden chandeliers;
2	I know thy works, and thy fatigue, and thy patience, and that thou canst not bear the wicked: and thou hast tried them saying they are sent, and are not, and thou Last found them liars:
3	And thou hast borne, and thou hast patience, and for my name hast thou been wearied, and thou hast not been broken by toil.
4	But I have against thee, for thou hast let go thy first love.
5	Therefore remember whence thou hast fallen, and repent, and do the first works; and if not, I come to thee quickly, and I will move the chandelier out of its place, except thou repent.
6	But this hast thou, that thou dost hate the works of the Nicolaitanes, which I also hate.
7	He having ears, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches; To him conquering I will give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the pleasure garden of God.
8	And to the messenger of the church of the Smyrnians write; Thus says the first and the last, who was dead and he lived;
9	I know thy works, and pressure, and poverty, (but thou art rich) and the blasphemy of them saying themselves to be Jews, and are not, but the synagogue of the adversary.
10	Neither be afraid of what things thou art about to suffer: behold, the accuser is about to cast of you into prison, that ye might be tried; and ye shall have pressure ten days: be thou faithful until death, and I will give thee the crown of life.
11	He having ears, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches; He conquering should not be injured by the second death.
12	And to the messenger to the calling out in Pergamos write: Thus says he having the sharp two-mouthed sword;
13	I know thy works, and where thou dwellest, where the throne of Satan: and thou holdest my name, and hast not denied my faith, and in the days in which Antipas my faithful witness, who was slain with you, where Satan dwells.
14	But I have a few things against thee, for thou hast there them holding the teaching of Balsam, who taught Balac to cast a stumbling-block before the sons of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols, and to commit fornication.
15	So also hast thou them holding the teaching of the Nicolaitanes, which I hate.
16	Repent; and if not, I come to thee swiftly, and will wage war with them with the sword of my mouth.
17	He having ears, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches; To him conquering will I give to eat from the hidden manna, and I will give him a white small stone, and upon the small stone a new name written, which none knew except he receiving.
18	And to the messenger of the church among the Thyatirians write; Thus says the Son of God, having his eyes as a flame of fire, and his feet like the brass of Lebanon;
19	I know thy works, and love, and service, and faith, and thy patience, and thy works; and the last more than the first.
20	But I have a few things against thee, for thou sufferest the woman Jezebel, calling herself a prophetess, to teach and to lead my servants astray to commit fornication, and to eat things offered to idols.
21	And I gave her time that she might repent of her fornication; and she repented not.
22	Behold, I will cast her into a bed, and them committing adultery with her into great pressure, except they repent of their works.
23	And her children will I kill in death; and all the churches shall know that I am he searching the reins and hearts: and I will give to you each according to our works.
24	And say to you, and to the rest among the Thyatirians, as many as have not this teaching, and who know not the burden of Satan, as they say; I will cast no other burden upon you.
25	But what ye have, hold ye until I come.
26	And he conquering, and keeping my works till the end, I will give him power over the nations:
27	And he will rule them with an iron rod; as vessels of earthen-ware shall they be rubbed together: as I also have received of my Father.
28	And I will give him the morning star.
29	He having ears, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.