1	And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and first earth passed away; and the sea was no more.
2	And I John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
3	And I heard a great voice from heaven saying, Behold the tent of God with men, and he will dwell with them and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, their God.
4	And God shall wipe out every tear from their eyes; and death be no more, neither grief, neither crying, nor trouble shall be more: for the first things departed.
5	And he sitting upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he says to me, Write: for these words are true and faithful.
6	And he said to me, It has been. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give to him thirsting of the fountain of the water of life gratuitously.
7	He conquering shall inherit all things; and I will be God to him, and he shall be son to me.
8	But to the cowardly, and unbelieving, and to the abominable, and murderers, and to fornicators, and charmers, and to idolaters, and to all the lying, their part in the lake burning with fire and sulphur: which is the second death,
9	And there came to me one of the seven angels having the seven vials full of the seven last plagues, and he spake with me, saying, Come, I will show thee the bride, the wife of the Lamb.
10	And he brought me away in the spirit upon a mountain great and high, and showed me the great city, the holy Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God,
11	Having the glory of God: and her luminary like a most precious stone, as jasper stone, shining like crystal;
12	And having a wall great and high, having twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and the names inscribed, which are of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel:
13	From the sunrising three gates; from the north three gates; from the south three gates; and from the sun-setting three gates.
14	And the wall of the city having twelve foundations, and in them the names of the twelve sent of the Lamb.
15	And he speaking with me had a golden reed that he might measure the city, and her gates, and her wall.
16	And the city lies quadrangular, and her length is so large, such also the breadth: and he measured the city with the reed, at twelve thousand stadia. Her length, breadth, and height are equal.
17	And he measured her wall, an hundred forty-four cubits, the measure of a man, which is the angel.
18	And the interior construction of her wall was a jasper: and the city pure gold, like pure crystal.
19	And the foundations of the wall of the city adorned with every precious stone. The first foundation a jasper; the second, a sapphire; the third, a chalcedony; the fourth an emerald:
20	The fifth, a sardonyx; the sixth, a sardius; the seventh, a chrysolyte; the eighth, a beryl; the ninth, a topaz; the tenth, a chrysoprasus; the eleventh, a hyacinth; the twelfth, an amethyst.
21	And the twelve gates twelve pearls; each one of the gates was of one pearl: and the broad way of the city pure gold, as transparent amber.
22	And a temple saw I not in her: for the Lord God, the Omnipotent Ruler, is the temple and the Lamb.
23	And the city has no need of the sun, nor of the moon, that they shine in her: for the glory of God enlightened her, and her light the Lamb.
24	And the nations of the saved shall walk about in her light: and the kings of the earth shall bring their glory and honour into her.
25	And her gates should not be shut by day: for no night shall be there.
26	And they shall bring the glory and the honour of the nations into her.
27	And there came not into her anything common, and any doing abomination, and a lie: but they written in the book of life of the Lamb.