1	And after these things I saw four angels standing upon the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, that the wind blow not upon the earth, nor upon the sea, nor upon any tree.
2	And I saw another angel having come from the rising of the sun, having the seal of the living God: and he cried with a great voice to the four angels, to whom it was given to injure the earth and the sea,
3	Saying, Injure not the earth, neither the sea, neither the trees, until we should seal the servants of God upon their foreheads.
4	And I heard the number of the sealed: an hundred and forty-four thousand sealed of all the tribes of the sons of Israel.
5	Of the tribe of Judah twelve thousand sealed. Of the tribe of Reuben twelve thousand sealed. Of the tribe of Gad twelve thousand sealed.
6	Of the tribe of Aser twelve thousand sealed. Of the tribe of Nepthalim twelve thousand sealed. Of the tribe of Manasses twelve thousand sealed.
7	Of the tribe of Simeon twelve thousand sealed. Of the tribe of Levi twelve thousand sealed. Of the tribe of Issachar twelve thousand sealed.
8	Of the tribe of Zabulon twelve thousand sealed. Of the tribe of Joseph twelve thousand sealed. Of the tribe of Benjamin twelve thousand sealed.
9	After these things I saw, and, behold, a great multitude, which none could number it, of all nations, and tribes, and peoples, and tongues, standing before the throne, and before the Lamb, having put round white robes, and palm trees in their hands;
10	And crying with a great voice, saying, Salvation to our God sitting upon the throne, and to the Lamb.
11	And all the angels stood round about the throne, and the elders and the four living creatures, and they fell before the throne upon their faces, and worshipped God,
12	Saying, Amen: praise, and glory, and wisdom, and gratitude, and honour, and power, and strength, to our God for ever and ever. Amen.
13	And one of the elders answered, saying to me, These having put round white robes, who are they? and whence came they.
14	And I said to him, Lord, thou knowest. And he said to me, These are they coming out of great pressure, and they washed their robes, and whitened their robes in the blood of the Lamb.
15	Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple: and he sitting upon the throne will dwell among them.
16	They shall hunger no more, nor thirst any more; nor should the sun fall upon them, neither any heat.
17	For the Lamb in the midst of the throne shall feed them, and shall guide them to living fountains of water: and God shall wipe out every tear from their eyes.