1	Now king Solomon was reigning over all of Israel.
2	And these were the leaders that he had: Azariah, the son of Zadok, the priest;
3	Elihoreph and Ahijah, the sons of Shisha, the scribes; Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, the keeper of records;
4	Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, over the army; and Zadok, and Abiathar, priests;
5	Azariah, the son of Nathan, over those who were assisting the king; Zabud, the son of Nathan, the priest, the friend of the king;
6	and Ahishar, first ruler of the house; and Adoniram, the son of Abda, over the tribute.
7	And Solomon had twelve commanders over all of Israel, who offered yearly provisions for the king and his house. For each was ministering the necessities, by each month of the year.
8	And these are their names: Benhur, on mount Ephraim;
9	Bendeker, in Makaz, and in Shaalbim, and in Beth-shemesh, and in Elon, and in Beth-hanan;
10	Benhesed, in Arubboth: his was Socoh and the entire land of Hepher;
11	Benabinadab, to whom was all of Naphath-Dor, who had Taphath, the daughter of Solomon, as wife;
12	Baana, the son of Ahilud, who was reigning in Taanach, and Megiddo, and all of Bethshean, which is beside Zarethan and below Jezreel, from Bethshean as far as Abelmeholah, opposite Jokmeam;
13	Bengeber, in Ramoth Gilead, who had the town of Jair, the son of Manasseh, in Gilead; the same was first in the entire region of Argob, which is in Bashan, sixty great cities with walls that had bronze bars;
14	Ahinadab, the son of Iddo, who was first in Mahanaim;
15	Ahimaaz, in Naphtali, and he also had Basemath, the daughter of Solomon, in marriage;
16	Baana, the son of Hushai, in Asher and in Bealoth;
17	Jehoshaphat, the son of Paruah, in Issachar;
18	Shimei, the son of Ela, in Benjamin;
19	Geber, the son of Uri, in the land of Gilead, in the land of Sihon, king of the Amorites, and of Og, king of Bashan, over all who were in that land.
20	Judah and Israel were innumerable, like the sand of the sea in multitude: eating and drinking, and rejoicing.
21	Now Solomon had, in his dominion, all the kingdoms, from the river to the land of the Philistines, even to the border of Egypt. And they offered gifts to him, and they served him all the days of his life.
22	And the provisions of Solomon, for each day, were thirty cor of fine wheat flour, and sixty cor of meal,
23	ten fattened oxen, and twenty oxen from the pastures, and one hundred rams, aside from the venison of stags, roe deer, and gazelles, and fattened poultry.
24	For he had obtained the entire region which was beyond the river, from Tiphsah as far as Gaza, and all the kings of those regions. And he had peace on every side all around.
25	And so, Judah and Israel were living without any fear, each one under his own vine and under his own fig tree, from Dan as far as Beersheba, during all the days of Solomon.
26	And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of chariot horses, and twelve thousand riding horses.
27	And the above-stated commanders of the king nourished these. And they also offered the necessities for the table of king Solomon, with immense diligence, each in his time.
28	Also, they brought barley and straw for the horses and beasts of burden, to the place where the king was, just as it was appointed to them.
29	And God gave wisdom to Solomon, and an exceedingly great prudence, and a spacious heart, like the sand which is on the shore of the sea.
30	And the wisdom of Solomon surpassed the wisdom of all the East, and of the Egyptians.
31	And he was wiser than all men: wiser than Ethan, the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol. And he was renowned in all the nations on every side.
32	Solomon also spoke three thousand parables. And his verses were one thousand and five.
33	And he discoursed about trees, from the cedar which is in Lebanon, to the hyssop which grows out from the wall. And he explained about beasts, and birds, and reptiles, and fish.
34	And they came from all the peoples in order to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and from all the kings of the earth, who were hearing about his wisdom.