1	And the spirit will lift me up and bring me to the east gate of the house of Jehovah looking to the east: and behold, in the door of the gate, twenty and five men; and I shall see in the midst of them Jaazaniah, son of Azur, and Pelatiah, son of Benaiah, chiefs of the people.
2	And he will say to say to me, Son of man, these the men purposing vanity and counseling evil counsel in this city.
3	Saying, It not being near; build houses: this the pot, and we the flesh.
4	For this, prophesy against them, prophesy, thou son of man.
5	And the spirit of Jehovah will fall upon me, and he will say to me, Say, Thus said Jehovah; Thus ye said, O house of Israel: and the risings of your spirit, I knew it.
6	Ye multiplied your wounded in this city, and ye filled its streets with the wounded.
7	For this, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Your wounded which ye set in her midst, they the flesh, and this the pot: and I brought you forth from its midst.
8	Ye feared the sword; and I will bring a sword upon you, says the Lord Jehovah.
9	And I brought you from its midst, and I gave you into the hand of strangers and I did judgment upon you.
10	By the sword shall ye fall upon the bound of Israel; I will judge you and ye shall know that I am Jehovah.
11	This shall not be to you for a pot, and ye shall not be in the midst of her for flesh; upon the bound of Israel will I judge you.
12	And ye shall know That I am Jehovah: for in my laws ye went not, and my judgments ye did not; and according to the judgments of the nations round about you ye did.
13	And it will be as I prophesied, and Pelatiah son of Benaiah, died. And I shall fall upon my face and cry with a great voice, and saying, Ah. Lord Jehovah, thou makest a completion with the remnant of Israel.
14	And the word of Jehovah will be to me, saying,
15	Son of man, thy brethren, thy brethren, the men of thy kin, and all the house of Israel, wholly, which the inhabitants of Jerusalem said to them, Go ye far off from Jehovah; to us this land was given for a possession.
16	For this, say, Thus said the Lord Jehovah: If I put them far off among the nations, and if I scattered them in the lands, and I will be to them for a little holy place in the lands where they went there.
17	For this, say, Thus said the Lord Jehovah: And I gathered you from the peoples, and I collected you from the lands where ye were scattered among them, and I gave to you the land of Israel.
18	And they came there, and they took away all the abominable things, and all the abominations from thence.
19	And I gave to them one heart, and a new spirit I will give in the midst of you; and I turned away the heart of stone from their flesh, and I gave to them a heart of flesh:
20	That they shall walk in my laws, and they shall watch my judgments and do them, and they were to me for a people and I shall be to them for God.
21	And to the heart going to the heart of their abominable things and their abominations, I gave their way upon their head, says the Lord Jehovah.
22	And the cherubs will lift up their wings, and the wheels with them; and the glory of the God of Israel over them from above.
23	And the glory of Jehovah will go up from the midst of the city, and stand upon the mountain which is from the east to the city.
24	And the spirit lifted me up, and it will bring me to Chaldea to the captivity, in a vision by the spirit of God. And the vision which I saw will go up from me.
25	And I shall speak to the captivity all the words of Jehovah which he caused me to see.