1	And the word of Jehovah will be to me in the ninth year, in the teeth month, in the tenth to the month, saying,
2	Son of man, write to thee the name of the day, this same day: the king of Babel set up against Jerusalem this same day.
3	And use a parable against the house of contradiction and say to them, Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Set on the pot, set on, and also pour water into it:
4	Gather its pieces into it, every good piece, the thigh and the shoulder; fill with the choice of the bones.
5	Take the choice of the flock and also wheel the bones under it, boil its boilings; also they cooked the bones in the midst of it.
6	For this, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Wo to the city of bloods! the pot which the rust in it, and her rust went not forth from it; bring it forth by its pieces, by its pieces; the lot fell not upon it.
7	For her blood was in the midst of her; she set it upon a dry rock; she poured it not forth upon the earth to cover over it with dust;
8	To cause wrath to come up, to avenge vengeance; I gave her blood upon the dry rock not to be covered.
9	For this, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Wo to the city of bloods! I will make her pile great.
10	Multiply the woods, kindle the fire, make ready the flesh, and spice with spicing, and the bones shall be burned.
11	And cause it to stand upon its coals, empty, so that its brass shall be warm and burning, and its uncleanness was melted in the midst of it; its rust shall be consumed.
12	She was wearied with labors, and her great rust shall not go forth from her: in the fire her rust.
13	In thy uncleanness is wickedness: because I cleansed thee and thou wert not cleansed, thou shalt no more be cleansed from thy uncleanness till my causing my wrath to rest upon thee.
14	I Jehovah spake: it came, and I did; I will not let go loose, and I will not spare, and. I will not lament; according to thy ways and according to thy works they judged thee, says the Lord Jehovah.
15	The word of Jehovah will be to me, saying,
16	Son of man, behold me taking from thee the desire of thine eyes with a blow: and thou shalt not lament, and thou shalt not weep, and thy tears shall not go.
17	Be silent to the sighing of blood, thou shalt not make mourning for the dead; bind thy head-dress upon thee, and thou shalt put thy shoes upon thy feet, and thou shalt not cover over the mustachios, and the bread of men thou shalt not eat.
18	And I shall speak to the people in the morning and my wife will die in the evening and I shall do in the morning as I was commanded.
19	And the people will say to me, Wilt thou not announce to us what these things to us that thou doest?
20	And saying to them, The word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
21	Say to the house of Israel, Thus said the Lord Jehovah, Behold me profaning my holy place, the excellency of your strength, the desire of your eyes, and the pity of your soul, and your sons and your daughters whom ye left, shall fall by the sword.
22	And ye did as I did: ye shall not cover over your mustachios, and the bread of men ye shall not eat.
23	And your head-dress upon your heads, and your shoes upon your feet: ye shall not lament, and ye shall not weep; and ye pined away in your iniquities, and ye grieved a man to his brother.
24	And Ezekiel was to you for a wonder: according to all which he did ye shall do: in its coming, and ye knew that I am the Lord Jehovah.
25	And thou son of man, was it not in the day, I took from them their strength, the joy of their glory the desire of their eyes, the lifting up of their soul, their sons and their daughters.
26	In that day he escaping shall come to thee to cause to hear with the ears.
27	In that day thy mouth shall be opened to him escaping and thou shalt speak, and thou shalt no more be dumb: and thou wert to them for a wonder, and they shall know that I am Jehovah.