1	And the word of Jehovah will be to me, saying,
2	Son of man, set thy face against the sons of Ammon, and prophesy against them.
3	And say to the sons of Ammon, Hear ye, the word of the Lord Jehovah, Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Because of thy saying, Aha! to my holy place, when it was profaned, and against the land of Israel, when it was made desolate, and to the house of Judah, when they went into captivity.
4	For this, behold me giving thee to the sons of the east for a possession, and they set their fortress in thee and in thee they gave their dwelling, they shall eat thy fruit, and they shall drink thy milk.
5	And I gave Rabbah for a rest of camels, and the sons of Ammon for a place of lying down of sheep, and ye knew that I am Jehovah.
6	For thus said the Lord Jehovah: Because of thy striking the hand and thy stamping with the foot and thou wilt rejoice in soul with all contempt against the land of Israel.
7	For this, behold I stretched forth my hand against thee, and I gave thee for a spoil to the nations, and I cut thee off from the peoples; and I caused thee to perish from the lands: I will destroy thee and thou knewest that I am Jehovah.
8	Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Because Moab said, and Seir, Behold, the house of Judah as all the nations;
9	For this, behold me opening the shoulder of Moab from the cities, from his cities, from his extremity, the glory of the land the house of desolation the place of dwelling, and the double city.
10	To the sons of the east with the sons of Ammon, I gave it for a possession, so that it shall not make mention of the sons of Ammon among the nations.
11	And I will do judgments upon Moab; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.
12	Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Because Edom did against the house of Judah by revenging vengeance, and they will transgress a transgression, and they revenged against them;
13	For this, thus said the Lord Jehovah: and I stretched out my hand upon Edom, and I cut of from her man and cattle; and I gave her a waste from the south; and Dedan shall fall by the sword.
14	And I gave my vengeance upon Edom by the hand of my people Israel: and they did in Edom according to mine anger and according to my wrath; and they shall know my vengeance, says the Lord Jehovah.
15	Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Because the rovers did in vengeance, and they will avenge vengeance with contempt of heart to destroy, a perpetual enmity;
16	For this, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Behold me stretching forth my hand upon the rovers, and I cut off the executioners, and I destroyed the remnant of the sea coast.
17	And I did great vengeances upon them with reproofs of wrath; and they shall know that I Jehovah, in my giving vengeance upon them.