1	The word of Jehovah will be to me, saying,
2	Son of man, say to the leader of Tyre, Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Because thy heart was lifted up, and thou wilt say, I am God, I sat upon the seat of God in the heart of the seas; and thou art man and not God, and thou wilt give thy heart as the heart of God.
3	Behold thee wise above Daniel; not any thing hidden was hidden to thee:
4	With thy wisdom and with thy understanding thou madest to thee wealth, and thou wilt make gold and silver in thy treasures.
5	By the multitude of thy wisdom, by thy traffic thou didst multiply thy wealth, and thine heart will be lifted up in thy wealth.
6	For this, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Because of thy giving thy heart as the heart of God;
7	For this, behold me bringing strangers upon thee, the terrible of the nations: and they emptied out their swords against the beauty of thy wisdom, and they profaned thy splendor.
8	They shall bring thee down to the pit, and thou didst die the deaths of the wounded in the heart of the seas.
9	Saying, wilt thou say, I am God, before him slaying thee? and thou art man and not God, in the hand of him wounding thee.
10	Thou shalt die the deaths of the uncircumcised by the hand of strangers: for I spake, says the Lord Jehovah.
11	And the word of Jehovah will be to me, saying,
12	Son of man, lift up a lamentation over the king of Tyre, and say to him, Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Thou didst seal up the measure full of wisdom and complete of beauty.
13	Thou wert in Eden the garden of God: every precious stone thy covering, the ruby, the topaz, the onyx, the chrysolite, the sardonyx and the jasper, the sapphire, the carbuncle and the emerald, and gold: the work of thy drums and thy pipes were prepared in thee in the day of thy being created.
14	Thou the cherub of expansion covering; and I gave thee: thou wert in the holy mountain of God; thou walkedst about in the midst of the stones of fire.
15	Thou shalt be perfected in thy ways from the day of thy being created even till iniquity was found in thee.
16	In the multitude of thy traffic they filled the midst of thee with violence, and thou wilt sin: and I shall profane thee from the mountain of God, and destroying thee, O covering cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire.
17	Thine heart was lifted up with thy beauty, thou didst corrupt thy wisdom on account of thy splendor: I cast thee upon the earth, I gave thee before kings to look upon thee.
18	From the multitude of thine iniquities, by the iniquity of thy traffic, thou didst profane my holy places; and I will bring forth a fire from the midst of thee, it shall consume thee, and I will give thee for ashes upon the earth before the eyes of all seeing thee.
19	All knowing thee among the peoples were astonished at thee: thou wert terrors; and thou not, even to forever.
20	And the word of Jehovah will be to me, saying,
21	Son of man, set thy face against Zidon and prophesy against, her,
22	And say, Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Behold me against, thee, O Zidon; and I was honored in the midst of thee, and they shall know that I am Jehovah, in my doing judgments upon her; and I was consecrated in her.
23	And I sent death into her, and blood in her streets; and the wounded fell in the midst of her by, the sword upon her from round about: and they shall know that I am Jehovah.
24	And no more shall there be to the house of Israel a thorn making bitter; and briars causing pain from all round about them despising them; and they shall know that I am the Lord Jehovah.
25	Thus said the Lord Jehovah: in my gathering the house of Israel from the peoples where they were scattered among them, and I was consecrated in them before the eyes of the nations, and they shall dwell in the land which I gave to my servant Jacob.
26	And they dwelt upon it with confidence, and, they built houses, and they planted vineyards; and they dwelt with confidence in my doing judgments upon all those despising them from round about them; and they shall know that I am Jehovah their God.