1	In the tenth year, in the tenth, in the twelfth to the month, was the word of Jehovah to me, saying,
2	Son of man set thy face against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him and against all Egypt:
3	Speak and say, Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Behold me against thee Pharaoh, king of Egypt, the great sea monster lying in the midst of his rivers, who said, The, river is to me, and I made me.
4	And I gave hooks in thy jaw bones, and I glued the fishes of thy rivers upon thy scales, and I brought thee up from the midst of thy rivers, and all the Ashes of thy rivers shall be glued to thy scales.
5	And I cast thee to the desert, thee and all the fish of thy rivers: thou shalt fall upon the face of the field; thou shalt not be gathered, and thou shalt not be collected: I gave thee for food to the beast of the earth and to the birds of the heavens.
6	And all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I am Jehovah, because they were a support of reed to the house of Israel:
7	In their taking hold upon thee by the hand, thou wilt run and rend for them all the shoulder: and in their leaning upon thee, thou: wilt break, and because to them the loins to stand.
8	For this, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Behold me bringing the sword upon thee, and I cut off from thee man and cattle.
9	And the land of Egypt was for desolation and waste; and they shall know that I am Jehovah, because he said, The river is to me; I made.
10	For this, behold me against thee, and against thy rivers, and I gave the land of Egypt for wastes of waste, a desolation from the tower Seveneh and even to the bound of Cush.
11	The foot of man shall not pass through it, and the foot of cattle shall not pass through it, and it shall not be inhabited forty years.
12	And I gave the land of Egypt a desolation in the midst of the lands being desolate, and her, cities in the midst of the cities laid waste shall be a desolation forty years: and I scattered Egypt among the nations and I dispersed them in the lands.
13	For thus said the Lord Jehovah: From the end of forty years I will gather Egypt from the peoples where they were scattered there:
14	And I turned back the captivity of Egypt; and I caused them to turn back to the land of Paths upon the land of their nativity; and they were there a low kingdom.
15	It shall be lower than the kingdoms, and it shall no more be lifted up over the nations: and I made them few not to rule over the nations.
16	And it shall be no more to the house of Israel for trust, bringing iniquity to remembrance in their turning after them: and they shall know that am the Lord Jehovah.
17	And it will be in the twenty and seventh year, in the first, in the one to the month, the word, of Jehovah was to me, saying,
18	Son of man, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babel caused his army to serve a great service against Tyre: every head being made bald, and every shoulder made smooth: and wages were not to him and to his army from Tyre for the service that he served against her.
19	For this, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Behold me giving to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babel, the land of Egypt; and he lifted up her multitude, and he spoiled her spoil and plundered her plunder, and it was the wages to his army.
20	I gave to him the land of Egypt the wages which he served against her, because they worked for me, says the Lord Jehovah.
21	In that day I will cause the born to the house of Israel to spring up, and to thee will I give the opening of the mouth in the midst of them; and they shall know that I am Jehovah,