1	And the word of Jehovah will be to me, saying,
2	Son of man, prophesy and say, Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Wail ye, Wo to the day!
3	For the day is near, the day of Jehovah is near, the day of a cloud; it shall be the time of the nations.
4	And the sword came upon Egypt, and pain was upon Cush, in the falling of the wounded in Egypt; and they took her multitude and her foundations were torn down.
5	Cosh and Phut and Lad, and all the intermingled, and Chub, and the sons of the land of the covenant, with them shall fall by the sword.
6	Thus said Jehovah: and they upholding Egypt fell, and the pride of her strength came down: from the tower Seveneh shall they fall in her by the sword, says the Lord Jehovah.
7	And they were desolate in the midst of the lands being desolated, and her cities shall be in the midst of the cities being laid waste.
8	And they knew that I am Jehovah in my giving fire in Egypt, and all her helpers were broken.
9	In that day shall go forth messengers from before me in ships to make confiding Cush afraid, and pain was upon them as the day of Egypt: for behold, it came.
10	Thus said the Lord Jehovah: and I caused the multitude of Egypt to cease by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babel.
11	He and his people with him, the terrible of the nations, being brought to destroy the land: and they emptied their swords upon Egypt, and they filled the land with the wounded.
12	And I gave the rivers dryness and I sold the land, into the hand of the evil: and I made the land desolate, and its fulness by the hand, of strangers: I Jehovah spake.
13	Thus said the Lord Jehovah: And I destroyed the blocks, and I caused their nothings to cease from Noph; and a prince of the land of Egypt shall be no more: and I gave fear in the land of Egypt.
14	And I made Pathros desolate, and I gave fire in Zoan, and I did judgments in No.
15	And I poured out my wrath upon Sin, the strength of Egypt; and I cut off the multitude of No.
16	And I gave fire in Egypt, and Sin writhing, shall be in pain, and No shall be for breaking in pieces, and Noph straits in the day.
17	The young men of Aven and Pibeseth shall fall by the sword: and these shall go into captivity.
18	And in Tahhapanes the day was darkened in my breaking there the rods of Egypt: and the pride of her strength ceased in her: she, a cloud shall cover her, and her daughters shall go into captivity.
19	And I did judgments in Egypt; and they knew that am Jehovah.
20	And it will be in the eleventh year, in the first, in the seventh to the month, the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
21	Son of man, I broke the arm of Pharaoh, king of Egypt; and behold, it not bound up to give healing, to put in bandages to bind it, to make it strong to hold upon the sword.
22	For this, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Behold me against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and I brake his arms, the strong, and the broken; and I caused the sword to fall from his hand.
23	And I scattered Egypt among the nations, and I dispersed them in the lands.
24	And I strengthened the arms of the king of Babel, and I gave my sword into his hand: and I brake the arms of Pharaoh, and he groaned the groanings of the wounded before his face.
25	And I strengthened the arms of the king of Babel, and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall; and they knew that I am Jehovah in my giving my sword into the hand of the king of Babel; and he stretched it out against the land of Egypt.
26	And I scattered Egypt among the nations, and I dispersed them in the lands; and they knew that I am Jehovah.