1	And it will be in the eleventh year, in the third, in one to the month, the word of Jehovah was to me, saying,
2	Son of man, say to Pharaoh king of Egypt, and to his multitude: To whom wert thou like in thy greatness?
3	Behold, Assur a cedar in Lebanon, fair of branch, and a shading thicket, and high of stature; and his foliage was between the thick boughs.
4	The water made him great, the deep raised him up with her rivers going round about her planting, and she sent forth her channels to all the trees of the field.
5	For this his height was lifted up more than all the trees of the field, and his boughs will be multiplied, and his branches will be extended from many waters, in his sending forth.
6	And all the birds of the heavens nested in his boughs, and under his branches all the beasts of the field brought forth, and in his shadow dwelt all the great nations.
7	And he was fair in his greatness, in the length of his branches: for his root was by many waters.
8	The cedars did not hide him in the garden of God: the cypresses were not like to his boughs, and the plane trees were not as his branches; every tree in the garden of God was not like to him in his beauty.
9	I made him fair by the multitude of his branches, and all the trees of Eden which are in the garden of God will envy him.
10	For this, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Because thou wert lifted up in height, and he will give his foliage between the thick boughs, and his heart was lifted up in his height;
11	And I will give him into the hand of the God of the nations; he shall do his doing to him: I drove him out for his injustice.
12	And strangers, the terrible of the nations, shall cut him off and cast him down: upon the mountains and in all the galleys his branches fell, and his boughs shall be broken by all the torrents of the land; and all the people of the land shall go down from his shadow, and will cast him down.
13	Upon his fall shall all the fowls of the heavens sit, and upon his branches were all the beasts of the field:
14	So that all the trees of the waters shall not be lifted up in height, and they shall not give their foliage between the thick boughs, and all they drinking water shall not stand upon them in their height: for they all were given to death, to the earth underneath, in the midst of the sons of man, to those going down to the pit.
15	Thus said the Lord Jehovah: In the day of his going down to hades caused to mourn: I covered the deep over him, and I shall restrain its floods, and many waters shall be withheld: and I will cause Lebanon to be darkened for him, and all the trees of the field fainted for him.
16	From the voice of his fall I caused the nations to tremble, in my causing him to go down to hades with those going down to the pit: and all the trees of Eden, the choice and good of Lebanon, all drinking water and they shall be comforted in the earth underneath.
17	They also went down with him to hades, to those being wounded with the sword; and his arm they dwelt in his shadow in the midst of the nations.
18	To whom wert thou thus like in glory and in greatness among the trees of Men? and thou wert brought down with the trees of Eden to the earth underneath: in the midst of the uncircumcised thou shalt lie, with the wounded of the sword. This is Pharaoh and all his multitude, says the Lord Jehovah.