1	And the word of Jehovah will be to me, saying,
2	Son of man, speak to the sons of thy people and say to them, A land, when I shall bring the sword upon her, and the people of the land took one man from their extremities, and they gave him to them for a watchman.
3	And he saw the sword coming upon the land, and he struck upon the trumpet and warned the people;
4	And he hearing, heard the voice of the trumpet, and he took not warning; and the sword will come and take him away; his blood shall be upon his head.
5	He heard the voice of the trumpet, and he took not warning; his blood shall be upon him. He taking warning delivered his soul.
6	And if the watchman shall see the sword coming, and he struck not upon the trumpet, and the people were not warned; and the sword shall come and take a soul from them, he was taken away in his iniquity, and his blood I will seek from the watchman’s hand.
7	And thou son of man, I gave thee a watchman to the house of Israel; and thou heardest the word from my mouth, and thou didst warn them from me.
8	In my saying to the, unjust, O unjust one, dying, thou shalt die; and thou spakest not to warn the unjust from his way, that unjust one shall die in his iniquity, and I will seek his blood from thine hand.
9	And thou, if thou warnedst the unjust from his way to turn back from it, and be turned not back from his way, he shall die in his iniquity; and thou didst deliver thy soul.
10	And thou son of man, say to the house of Israel: Thus ye said, saying, If our transgressions and our sins be upon us, and we pining away in them, and how shall we live?
11	Say to them, I live, says the Lord Jehovah, if I shall delight in the death of the unjust; but in the turning back of the unjust one from his way, and he lived: turn back, turn back from your evil ways: and wherefore will ye die, O house of Israel?
12	And thou, son of man, say to the sons of my people, The justice of the just shall not deliver him in the day of his transgression: and the injustice of the unjust, he shall not stumble in it in the day of his turning back from his injustice; and the just shall not be able to live in the day of his sinning.
13	In my saying to the just, living, he shall live; and he trusted upon his justice, and he did evil, all his justice shall not be remembered; and in his iniquity which he did he shall die in it.
14	And in my saying to the unjust, Dying, thou shalt die; and he turned back from his sinning and he did judgment and justice;
15	The unjust shall turn back the pledge he shall restore the spoil, going in the laws of the living not to do evil; living, he shall live, he shall not die.
16	All his sins which he sinned shall not be remembered to him: he did judgment and justice; living, he shall live.
17	And the sons of my people said, The way of Jehovah will not make even: and they their way shall not make even.
18	In the turning back of the just from his justice and doing iniquity, he shall die in them.
19	And in the turning back of the unjust from his injustice and doing judgment and justice upon them, he shall live.
20	And ye said, The way of Jehovah will not make even. I will judge you each according to his ways, O house of Israel.
21	And it will be in the twelfth year, in the tenth, in the fifth to the month, to our captivity, he having escaped from Jerusalem came to me, saying, The city was struck.
22	And the hand of Jehovah was to me in the evening, before he having escaped came; and he opened my mouth till he came to me in the morning; and he will open my mouth and I was no more dumb.
23	And the word of Jehovah will be to me, saying,
24	Son of man, they inhabiting these wastes upon the land of Israel say, saying, Abraham was one, and he will inherit the land: and we are many; the land was given to us for a possession.
25	For this, say to them, Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Ye will eat with the bloods, and ye will lift up your eyes to your blocks, and ye will pour out blood: and shall ye possess the land?
26	Ye stood upon your sword, ye did abomination, and ye defiled each his neighbor’s wife: and shall ye possess the land?
27	Thus shalt thou say to them: Thus said the Lord Jehovah: I live if not they who are in the wastes shall fall by the sword, and he who is upon the face of the field I gave him to the beast to eat him, and they who are in the fastnesses and in caves shall die by death.
28	And I gave the land a desolation and an amazement, and I caused the pride of her strength to cease; and the mountains of Israel were desolate from none passing through.
29	And they shall know that I am Jehovah in my giving the land a desolation and an astonishment for all their abominations which they did.
30	And thou son of man, the sons of my people are speaking against thee by the walls and in the doors of the houses, and speaking one to another, a man to his brother, saying, Come now and hear what the word coming forth from Jehovah.
31	And they will come to thee, according to the coming of the people, and they will sit before thee my people, and they heard thy words, and they did them not: for they making loves with their mouth, their heart went after their plunder.
32	And behold thee to them as song of loves of a fair voice, playing well an instrument: and they heard thy words and did them not.
33	And in its coming (behold, it came) and they shall know that a prophet was in the midst of them.