1	And he will cause me to go to the gate, the gate whose face the way of the east.
2	And behold, the glory of the God of Israel came from the way of the east: and his voice as the voice of many waters; and the earth was illuminated from his glory.
3	And as the appearance of the vision which I saw, as the vision which I saw in my coming to destroy the city: and the visions as the vision which I saw at the river Chebar; and I shall fall upon my face.
4	And the glory of Jehovah came into the house the way of the gate which its face the way of the east.
5	And the spirit will lift me up and bring me to the inner enclosure; behold, the glory of Jehovah filled the house.
6	And I shall hear him speaking to me from the house; and a man was standing by me.
7	And he will say to me, Son of man, the place of my throne, and the place of the soles of my feet, where I shall dwell there in the midst of the sons of Israel forever, and the house of Israel shall no more defile my holy name, they and their kings by their fornication, and by the corpses of their kings in their heights.
8	In their giving their threshold with my thresholds, and their door-post by my door-posts, and the wall between me and between them, and they defiled my holy name with their abominations which they did: and consuming them in my anger.
9	Now they shall put far off their fornication, and the corpses of their kings, from me, and I dwelt in the midst of them forever.
10	Thou son of man, announce to the house of Israel, the house, and they shall be ashamed of their iniquities: and measure the structure.
11	And if they were ashamed of all which they did, the form of the house and its structure, and all its goings out and all its comings in, and all its forms, and all its laws, and all its forms, and all its instructions, make known to them: and write before their eyes, and they shall watch all its instructions and all its laws, and do them.
12	This the instruction of the house: Upon the head of the mountain all its bound round about, round about, holy of holies. Behold, this the instruction of the house.
13	And these the measures of the altar by cubits: a cubit, a cubit and a hand-breadth; and the bosom, a cubit and a cubit the breadth; and its bound to its lip round about, one span: and this the back of the altar.
14	And from the bosom of the earth even to the lower terrace, two cubits, and the breadth, one cubit; and from the small terrace even to the great terrace, four cubits, and the breadth, the cubit.
15	And the mountain of God, four cubits; and from the lion of God and upwards, four horns.
16	And the lion of God, twelve the length by twelve the breadth; four square to its four squares.
17	And the terrace, fourteen the length by fourteen the breadth, to its four squares; and the bound round about it half a cubit, and the bosom to it, a cubit round about; and its steps turning east.
18	And he will say to me, Son of man, thus said the Lord Jehovah: These the laws of the altar in the day of Making it to bring up a burnt-offering upon it, and to sprinkle upon it blood.
19	And give to the priests the Levites, those which are of the seed of Zadok, drawing near to me, says the Lord Jehovah, to save me, a bullock, son of a cow, for sin.
20	And take from its blood and give upon its four horns, and to the four corners of the terrace, and to the border round about: and cleanse it and expiate it.
21	And take the bullock of the sin and burn it in the appointed place of the house from without to the holy place.
22	And in the second day thou shalt bring near a kid of the goats complete for sin; and cleanse ye the altar as they cleansed for the bullock.
23	In thy finishing the cleansing thou shalt bring a bullock, son of a cow, blameless, and a blameless ram front the sheep;
24	And bring them near before Jehovah, and the priests cast salt upon them, and they brought them up a burnt-offering to Jehovah.
25	Seven days thou shalt do a he goat of sin for the day, and a bullock, son of a cow, and a ram from the sheep, blameless, shall they do.
26	Seven days and they expiated the altar, and they cleansed it; and they filled his hand.
27	And they finished the days, and it was in the eighth day and forward, the priests will do your burnt-offerings upon the altar, and your peace: and I received you into favor, says the Lord Jehovah.