1	And in your causing the land to fall in inheritance, ye shall lift up an oblation to Jehovah, holiness from the land: the length, five and twenty thousand the length; and the breadth, ten thousand: it is holy in all its bounds round about.
2	There shall be from this to the holy place five hundred, by five being square round about; and fifty cubits the area to it round about.
3	And from this measure thou shalt measure the length, five and twenty thousand, and the breadth, ten thousand: and in it shall be the holy plate, the holy of holies.
4	A holy place from the land this shall be to the priests serving the holy place drawing near to serve Jehovah: and it was to them a place for their houses and a holy place for the holy place.
5	And five and twenty thousand the length, and ten thousand the breadth, shall be to the Levites serving the house to them for a possession of twenty cells.
6	And ye shall give the possession of the city, five thousand the breadth, and the length, five and twenty thousand, over against the oblation of the holy place: it shall be to all the house of Israel.
7	And for the prince from this, and from this to the oblation of the holy place, and to the possession of the city, at the face of the oblation of the holy place, and at the face of the possession of the city from the side of the sea, the ass, and from the side of the east to the east: and the length over against one of the portions from the bound of the sea to the bound of the east,
8	In the land it shall be to him for a possession in Israel: and my princes shall no more oppress my people; and they shall give the land to the house of Israel according to their tribes.
9	Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Enough to you, O princes of Israel: remove ye violence and oppression, and do judgment and justice, lift up your expulsions from off my people, says the Lord Jehovah.
10	A just balance, and a just ephah, and a just bath, shall be to you.
11	The ephah and the bath shall be one measure, for the bath to lift up the tenth of the homer, and the ephah the tenth of the homer: to the homer shall it be from its measure.
12	And the shekel twenty gerahs: twenty shekels, five and twenty shekels, fifteen shekels the maneh shall be to you.
13	This the oblation which ye shall lift up: the sixth of an ephah of an homer of wheat, and give the sixth of an ephah of an homer of barley.
14	And the law of oil, the bath of oil, the tenth of the bath from the cor, ten baths the homer, for ten baths are the homer.
15	And one sheep from the flock out of two hundred, out of the well watered region of Israel, for a gift and for the burnt-offering, and for the peace to expiate for them, says the Lord Jehovah.
16	All the people of the land shall be for this oblation for the prince in Israel.
17	And for the prince it shall be the burnt-offerings, and the gift, and the libation, in the festivals and in the new moons, and in the Sabbaths, and in all the appointments of the house of Israel: he shall do the sin, and the gift, and the burnt-offering, and the peace to expiate for the house of Israel.
18	Thus said the Lord Jehovah: In the first, in one to the month, thou shalt take a bullock, son of a cow, blameless, and cleanse the holy place:
19	And the priest took of the blood of the sin and gave upon the door-posts of the house, and upon the four corners of the terrace, to the altar and upon the door-posts of the gate of the inner enclosure.
20	And thus shalt thou do in the seventh to the month, from each going astray and from the simple: and ye expiated the house.
21	In the first, in the fourteenth day in the month, the passover shall be to you the festival of seven days; unleavened shall be eaten.
22	And in that day the prince did for himself and for all the people of the land the bullock of sin.
23	And seven days of the festival he shall do a burnt-offering to Jehovah, seven bullocks and seven rams blameless for the day, seven days; and the sin a he goat of the goats for the day.
24	And the gift an ephah for a bullock, and an ephah for a ram shall he do, and oil, an hin to the ephah.
25	In the seventh, in the fifteenth day to the month, in the festival shall he do according to these things, seven days, according to the sin, according to the burnt-offering; and according to the gift and according to the oil.