1	And the word of Jehovah will be to me, saying,
2	Son of man, set thy face to the mountains of Israel, and prophesy against them,
3	And say, Ye mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord Jehovah: Thus said the Lord Jehovah to the mountains and to the hills, to the torrents and to the valleys: behold me, I bring the sword upon you, and I destroyed your heights.
4	And your altars were laid waste, and your images were broken: and I caused your wounded to fall before your blocks.
5	And I gave the carcasses of the sons of Israel before their blocks; and I scattered your bones round about your altars.
6	In all your dwellings the cities shalt be laid waste, and the heights shall be made desolate; so that your altars shall be laid waste and destroyed, and your blocks were broken and ceased, and your images were cut down, and your works were wiped away.
7	And the wounded fell in the midst of you, and ye shall know that I am Jehovah.
8	And I left in being to you them escaping the sword among the nations, in my scattering you in the lands.
9	And those escaping of you remembered me among the nations where they were carried captive there, because I was broken with their heart of a harlot, which turned away from me, and their eyes committing fornication after their blocks: and they loathed in their faces for the evils which they did for all their abominations.
10	And they shall know that I am Jehovah; not in vain spake I to do to them this evil.
11	Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Strike with thy hand and stamp with thy foot, and say, Alas, for all the evil abominations of the house of Israel! for they shall fall by the famine and by the sword and by death.
12	He being far off, in death shall he die; and he being near shall fall by the sword; and he remaining and he being besieged shall die by famine: and I finished my wrath upon them.
13	And ye knew that I am Jehovah in their wounded being in the midst of their blocks round about their altars, upon every high hill, upon all the heads of the mountains, and under every green tree, and under every thick oak, the place where they gave there an odor of sweetness to all their blocks.
14	And I stretched forth my hand upon them, and I gave the land a desolation and an astonishment from the desert of Diblath, in all their dwellings: and they shall know that I am Jehovah.