1	And the word of Jehovah will be to me, saying,
2	And thou son of man, thus said the Lord Jehovah to the land of Israel: An end, the end came upon the four corners of the land.
3	Now the end upon thee, and I sent mine anger against thee, and I judged thee according to thy ways, and I gave upon thee all thine abominations.
4	And mine eye shall not spare upon thee, and I will not pity: for I will give thy ways upon thee, and thine abominations shall be in the midst of thee: and ye knew that I am Jehovah.
5	Thus said the Lord Jehovah: An evil, one evil, behold, coming.
6	An end came, the end came: it awaked against thee; behold, it came.
7	The circle came to thee, thou inhabiting the land: the time came, the day of consternation drew near, and not the shout of joy of the mountains.
8	The time drawing near I will pour out my wrath upon thee, and I completed mine anger against thee: and I judged thee according to thy ways, and I gave upon thee all thine abominations.
9	And mine eye shall not spare, and I will not pity: I will give upon thee according to thy ways, and thine abominations, they shall be in the midst of thee; and ye knew that I am Jehovah striking.
10	Behold the day, behold, it came: the circle shall go forth; the rod blossomed, pride flourished.
11	Violence rose up for a rod of injustice: not from them, not from their multitude, and not from their confusion: and nothing eminent in them.
12	The time came, the day drew near: he buying shall not rejoice, and he selling, shall not mourn: for burning upon all her multitude.
13	For he selling shall not turn back to the sale, and it was in their yet living: for the vision for all her multitude; it shall not turn back, and a man shall not be strengthened in his iniquity of his life.
14	They shall strike upon the trumpet, and to prepare all; and none went to the war: for my burning is upon all her multitude.
15	The sword without, and the death and the famine from within: who is in the field shall die by the sword; and who is in the city, the famine and death shall consume him.
16	And they escaping, escaped, and they were on the mountains as doves of the valleys, all of them slain, a man for his iniquity.
17	All hands shall be relaxed, and all knees shall go into water.
18	And they girded on sackcloth and trembling covered them; and shame to all faces, and upon all heads, baldness.
19	They will cast their silver into the streets, and their gold shall be for uncleanness: their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the outpouring of Jehovah: they shall not satisfy their souls, and they shall not fill their bowels: for it was the stumbling-block of their iniquity.
20	The matter of his ornament they set for pride; and they made the images of their abominations, their abominable things upon it: for this I gave it to them for uncleanness.
21	And I gave it into the hands of strangers for plunder, and to the unjust of the earth for a spoil; and they profaned it.
22	And I turned my face from them, and they profaned my secret; and the rapacious came into it and profaned it.
23	Make the chain: for the land was filled with judgment of bloods, and the city was filled with violence.
24	And I brought the evil ones of the nations, and they inherited their houses: and I caused the pride of the strong ones to cease, and their holy places were profaned.
25	And terror came, and they sought peace, and none.
26	And ruin upon ruin shall come, and report shall be to report; and they sought a vision from the prophet; and law shall perish from the priest, and counsel from the old men.
27	The king shall mourn, and the prince shall put on desolation, and the hands of the people of the land shall tremble: from their way will I do with them, and with their judgments I will judge them, and they shall know that I am Jehovah.