1	The Pharisees also with the Sadducees came, and tempting desired him that he would show them a sign from heaven.
2	He answered and said to them, When it is evening, you say, It will be fair weather: for the sky is red.
3	And in the morning, It will be foul weather to day: for the sky is red and lowering. O you hypocrites, you can discern the face of the sky; but can you not discern the signs of the times?
4	A wicked and adulterous generation seeks after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas. And he left them, and departed.
5	And when his disciples were come to the other side, they had forgotten to take bread.
6	Then Jesus said to them, Take heed and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees.
7	And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have taken no bread.
8	Which when Jesus perceived, he said to them, O you of little faith, why reason you among yourselves, because you have brought no bread?
9	Do you not yet understand, neither remember the five loaves of the five thousand, and how many baskets you took up?
10	Neither the seven loaves of the four thousand, and how many baskets you took up?
11	How is it that you do not understand that I spoke it not to you concerning bread, that you should beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees?
12	Then understood they how that he bade them not beware of the leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees.
13	When Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?
14	And they said, Some say that you are John the Baptist: some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets.
15	He said to them, But whom say you that I am?
16	And Simon Peter answered and said, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.
17	And Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood has not revealed it to you, but my Father which is in heaven.
18	And I say also to you, That you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.
19	And I will give to you the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatever you shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatever you shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
20	Then charged he his disciples that they should tell no man that he was Jesus the Christ.
21	From that time forth began Jesus to show to his disciples, how that he must go to Jerusalem, and suffer many things of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised again the third day.
22	Then Peter took him, and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from you, Lord: this shall not be to you.
23	But he turned, and said to Peter, Get you behind me, Satan: you are an offense to me: for you mind not the things that be of God, but those that be of men.
24	Then said Jesus to his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.
25	For whoever will save his life shall lose it: and whoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it.
26	For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?
27	For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels; and then he shall reward every man according to his works.
28	Truly I say to you, There be some standing here, which shall not taste of death, till they see the Son of man coming in his kingdom.