1	In those days came John the Baptist, preaching in the wilderness of Judaea,
2	And saying, Repent you: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
3	For this is he that was spoken of by the prophet Esaias, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare you the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.
4	And the same John had his raiment of camel’s hair, and a leather girdle about his loins; and his meat was locusts and wild honey.
5	Then went out to him Jerusalem, and all Judaea, and all the region round about Jordan,
6	And were baptized of him in Jordan, confessing their sins.
7	But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees come to his baptism, he said to them, O generation of vipers, who has warned you to flee from the wrath to come?
8	Bring forth therefore fruits meet for repentance:
9	And think not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father: for I say to you, that God is able of these stones to raise up children to Abraham.
10	And now also the ax is laid to the root of the trees: therefore every tree which brings not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire.
11	I indeed baptize you with water to repentance. but he that comes after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear. he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and with fire.
12	Whose fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly purge his floor, and gather his wheat into the garner; but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.
13	Then comes Jesus from Galilee to Jordan to John, to be baptized of him.
14	But John forbade him, saying, I have need to be baptized of you, and come you to me?
15	And Jesus answering said to him, Suffer it to be so now: for thus it becomes us to fulfill all righteousness. Then he suffered him.
16	And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and, see, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting on him:
17	And see a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.