1	A Prayer of Habakkuk the Prophet on Behalf of Those Who Are Ignorant.
2	Lord, I heard what has been said about you, and I was afraid. Lord, your work, in the midst of years, revive it. In the midst of years, you will make it known. When you have become angry, you will remember mercy.
3	God will come from the south, and the Holy One from mount Pharan. His glory has covered the heavens, and the earth is full of his praise.
4	His brightness shall be like the light; horns are in his hands. There, his strength has been hidden.
5	Death will go forth before his face. And the devil shall depart before his feet.
6	He stood, and measured the earth. He looked, and dissolved the Gentiles. And the mountains of ages past have been shattered. The hills of the world became curved by the journeys of his eternity.
7	I saw the tents of Ethiopia for their iniquity; the tent-skins of the land of Midian will be thrown into confusion.
8	Could you have been angry with the rivers, Lord? Or was your fury within the rivers, or your indignation in the sea? He will ascend upon your horses, and your four-horse chariots are salvation.
9	Being stirred up, you will take up your bow, the oaths you have spoken to the tribes. You will split apart the Rivers of the earth.
10	They saw you, and the mountains grieved. The great body of waters crossed over. The abyss uttered its voice. The pinnacle lifted up its hands.
11	The sun and the moon have stood firm in their dwelling place; with the light of your arrows, they shall go forth in the splendor of your flashing spear.
12	With a roar, you will trample the earth. In your fury, you will cause the nations to be stupefied.
13	You have gone forth for the salvation of your people, for salvation with your Christ. You struck the head of the house of the impious. You have laid bare his foundation all the way to the neck.
14	You have cursed his scepters, the head of his warriors, those who approached like a whirlwind so as to scatter me. Their exultation was like one who devours the poor in secret.
15	You made a way in the sea for your horses, in the mud of great waters.
16	I heard, and my stomach became troubled. My lips trembled at the voice. Let decay enter into my bones and gush forth from within me. Then I may rest in the day of tribulation, so that I may ascend to our people well-prepared.
17	For the fig tree will not flower, and there will be no bud on the vines. The labor of the olive tree will be misleading, and the farmland will produce no food. The sheep will be cut off from the sheepfold, and there will be no herd at the manger.
18	But I will rejoice in the Lord; and I will exult in God my Jesus.
19	The Lord God is my strength. And he will set my feet like those of the stag. And he, the victor, will lead me beyond my high places while singing psalms.