1	Hear this word, ye kine of Bashan, That are in the mountain of Samaria, That oppress the poor, that crush the needy, That say unto their lords: ‘Bring, that we may feast.’
2	The Lord GOD hath sworn by His holiness: Lo, surely the days shall come upon you, That ye shall be taken away with hooks, And your residue with fish-hooks.
3	And ye shall go out at the breaches, every one straight before her; And ye shall be cast into Harmon, Saith the LORD.
4	Come to Beth-el, and transgress, To Gilgal, and multiply transgression; And bring your sacrifices in the morning, And your tithes after three days;
5	And offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving of that which is leavened, And proclaim freewill-offerings and publish them; For so ye love to do, O ye children of Israel, Saith the Lord GOD.
6	And I also have given you Cleanness of teeth in all your cities, And want of bread in all your places; Yet have ye not returned unto Me, Saith the LORD.
7	And I also have withholden the rain from you, When there were yet three months to the harvest; And I caused it to rain upon one city, And caused it not to rain upon another city; One piece was rained upon, And the piece whereupon it rained not withered.
8	So two or three cities wandered unto one city To drink water, and were not satisfied; Yet have ye not returned unto Me, Saith the LORD.
9	I have smitten you with blasting and mildew; The multitude of your gardens and your vineyards And your fig-trees and your olive-trees Hath the palmer-worm devoured; Yet have ye not returned unto Me, Saith the LORD.
10	I have sent among you the pestilence in the way of Egypt; Your young men have I slain with the sword, And have carried away your horses; And I have made the stench of your camp to come up even into your nostrils; Yet have ye not returned unto Me, Saith the LORD.
11	I have overthrown some of you, As God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, And ye were as a brand plucked out of the burning; Yet have ye not returned unto Me, Saith the LORD.
12	Therefore thus will I do unto thee, O Israel; Because I will do this unto thee, Prepare to meet thy God, O Israel.
13	For, lo, He that formeth the mountains, and createth the wind, And declareth unto man what is his thought, That maketh the morning darkness, And treadeth upon the high places of the earth; The LORD, the God of hosts, is His name.