1	Likewise, wives being subject to their own husbands; that also, if any believe not the word, by the turning back of wives might be gained without the word;
2	Having beheld in fear your pure turning back.
3	Whose outside let it not be of the interweaving of hairs, and of putting round of gold, or of putting on of garments, the arrangement;
4	But the hidden man of the heart, in the uncorruptedness of a mild and quiet spirit, which is before God of great price.
5	For so once also the holy women, hoping in God, arranged themselves, being subjected to their own husbands:
6	(As Sara listened to Abraham, calling him lord: whose children ye are,) doing good, and not fearing any terror.
7	Men, likewise, dwelling together according to knowledge, as showing honour to the weaker vessel, pertaining to woman, and as co-heirs of the grace of life; that your prayers be not cut off.
8	And finally, all unanimous, suffering together, loving the brethren, having good bowels, an affectionate disposition:
9	Not returning evil for evil, or railing for railing: and on the contrary prayer; knowing that to this were ye called, that ye might inherit praise.
10	For he wishing to love life, and to see good days, let him cause his tongue to cease from evil, and his lips from speaking deceit:
11	Let him bend away from evil, and do good; let him seek peace, and follow it.
12	For the eyes of the Lord upon the just, and his ears to their prayer: and the face of the Lord against them doing evil.
13	And who going to injure you, if ye be imitators of good?
14	But if ye also suffer for justice, happy are ye: be not afraid of their fear, neither be troubled;
15	And consecrate the Lord God in your hearts: and being ready always for a justification to every one asking you the word of the hope in you with meekness and fear:
16	Having a good consciousness; that, in what they speak evil against you, as doing evil, they threatening your good turning round in Christ should be ashamed.
17	Fur better, doing good, if the will of God will, to suffer, than doing evil.
18	For Christ also once suffered for sins, the just one for the unjust, that he might bring us near to God, truly put to death in the flesh, and made alive by the Spirit:
19	In which also having gone, he proclaimed to the spirits in prison;
20	They having been once unbelieving, when the longsuffering of God waited in Noah’s days, the ark being prepared, in which few, that is, eight souls were saved by water.
21	By which also the figure, immersion, now saves us (not by laying aside of the filth of the flesh, but the question of a good consciousness toward God,) by the rising up of Jesus Christ:
22	Who is on the right hand of God, having gone into heaven; angels and authorities and powers subjected to him.