1	Therefore Christ having suffered for us in the flesh, also arm ye yourselves with the same mind: (for he having suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin;)
2	That no more to the eager desires of men, but to the will of God, should he live the remaining time in the flesh.
3	For the time of life passed over sufficient for us to have wrought the will of the nations, having gone in licentiousness, eager desires, drunkenness, revellings, drinkings, and criminal idolatries:
4	In which they are astonished, you not running together in the same pouring out of lavish expense, blaspheming:
5	Who shall return the word to him holding in readiness to judge the living and the dead.
6	For also for this was the good news announced to the dead, that truly they might be judged according to men in the flesh, and live according to God in the spirit.
7	And the end of all has drawn near: be ye therefore of sound mind, and live abstemiously in prayers.
8	More than all having intent love among yourselves: for love shall cover a multitude of sins.
9	Being hospitable to one another without murmurings.
10	As each received favor, serving the same among yourselves, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God.
11	If any speak, as the oracles of God; if any serve, as of the strength which God furnishes: that in all God might be praised by Jesus Christ, in whom is the glory and strength for the time of times. Amen.
12	Dearly beloved, be not astonished at the refining of fire in you, being for trial to you, as a strange thing happening to you:
13	But, inasmuch as ye participate in the sufferings of Christ, rejoice; that also, in the revelation of his glory, ye might rejoice, transported with joy.
14	If ye be reproached in the name of Christ, ye happy; for the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you: by them truly he is defamed, and by you he is praised.
15	For let not any of you suffer as a murderer, or thief, or doing evil, or as an inspector, in what pertains to others.
16	And if as a Christian, let him not be ashamed; and let him praise God in this portion.
17	For the time for judgment to have begun from the house of God: and if first from us, what the end of them not believing the good tidings of God?
18	And if the just one with difficulty be saved, where shall the irreligious and sinful appear.
19	Therefore let them also suffering according to the will of God commit their souls in doing good, as to a faithful Creator.