1	Thus says the Lord: For three wicked deeds of Moab, and for four, I will not convert him, in so far as he has burned the bones of the king of Idumea, all the way to ashes.
2	And I will send a fire onto Moab, and it will devour the buildings of Kerioth. And Moab will die with a noise, with the blare of a trumpet.
3	And I will destroy the judge in their midst, and I will execute all his leaders with him, says the Lord.
4	Thus says the Lord: For three wicked deeds of Judah, and for four, I will not convert him, in so far as he has rejected the law of the Lord and has not kept his commandments. For their idols, which their fathers followed, have deceived them.
5	And I will send a fire onto Judah, and it will devour the buildings of Jerusalem.
6	Thus says the Lord: For three wicked deeds of Israel, and for four, I will not convert him, in so far as he has sold the just for silver and the poor for shoes.
7	They grind the heads of the poor into the dust of the earth, and they divert the way of the humble. And the son, as well as his father, have gone to the same girl, so that they outrage my holy name.
8	And they have lain on garments taken in pledge next to every altar. And they drank the wine of the damned in the house of their God.
9	Yet I exterminated the Amorites before their face, whose height was like the height of cedars, and whose strength was like the oak. And I crushed his fruit from above and his roots below.
10	It is I who caused you to ascend from the land of Egypt, and I led you in the wilderness for forty years, so that you might possess the land of the Amorite.
11	And I stirred up prophets from your sons, and Nazirites from your young men. Is it not so, sons of Israel, says the Lord?
12	Yet you would offer wine to the Nazirites, and you would command the prophets, saying: “Do not prophesy.”
13	Behold, I will creak under you, just as a wagon creaks that is laden with hay.
14	And flight will perish from the swift, and the strong will not maintain his strength, and the healthy will not save his life.
15	And one holding the bow will not stand firm, and the swift of foot will not be saved, and the rider on the horse will not save his life.
16	And the stout of heart among the strong will flee away naked in that day, says the Lord.