1	And these the sons of the province coming up from the captivity of the exiles which Nebuchadnezzar carried into exile to Babel; and they will turn back to Jerusalem and Judah, a man to his city;
2	Who came with Zerubbabel: Joshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mizpar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of men of the people of Israel.
3	The sons of Parosh, two thousand one hundred seventy and two.
4	The sons of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two.
5	The sons of Arah, seven hundred five and seventy.
6	The sons of Pahath-Moab, to the sons of Joshua of Joab, two thousand eight hundred and twelve.
7	The sons of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four.
8	The sons of Zattu, nine hundred and forty and five.
9	The sons of Zaccai, seven hundred and sixty.
10	The sons of Bani, six hundred forty and two.
11	The sons of Bebai, six hundred twenty and three.
12	The sons of Azgad, a thousand two hundred twenty and two.
13	The sons of Adonikam, six hundred sixty and six.
14	The sons of Bigvai, two thousand fifty and six.
15	The sons of Adin, four hundred fifty and four.
16	The sons of Ater to Hezekiah, ninety and eight.
17	The sons of Bezel, three hundred twenty and three.
18	The sons of Jorah, a hundred and and twelve.
19	The sons of Hashum, two hundred twenty and three.
20	The sons of Gibber, ninety and five.
21	The sons of the house of bread, a hundred twenty and three.
22	The men of Netophah, fifty and six.
23	The men of Anathoth, a hundred twenty and eight.
24	The sons of Azmaveth, forty and two.
25	The sons of Kirjath-Arim, Chephiroth and Beeroth, seven hundred and forty and three.
26	The sons of Ramah and Gabe, six hundred twenty and one.
27	The men of Michmas, a hundred twenty and two.
28	The men of the house of God and Ai, two hundred twenty and three.
29	The sons of Nebo, fifty and two.
30	The sons of Magbish, a hundred fifty and six.
31	The sons of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four.
32	The sons of Harim, three hundred and twenty.
33	The sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty and five.
34	The sons of Jericho, three hundred forty and five.
35	The sons of Senaah, three thousand and six hundred and thirty.
36	The priests: the sons of Jedaiah to the house of Joshua, nine hundred seventy and three.
37	The sons of Immer, a thousand fifty and two.
38	The sons of Pashur, a thousand two hundred forty and seven.
39	The sons of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.
40	The Levites: the sons of Joshua and Kadmiel, to the sons of Hodaviah, seventy and four.
41	Those singing: the sons of Asaph, a hundred twenty and eight.
42	The sons of the gates: the sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of Akkub, the sons of Hatite, the sons of Shobi, all, a hundred thirty and nine.
43	The Nethinims: the sons of Ziha, the sons of Hasupha, the sons of Tabbaoth.
44	The sons of Keros, the sons of Siaha, the sons of Padon,
45	The sons of Lebanah, the sons of Hagabah, the sons of Akkub,
46	The sons of Hagab, the sons of Shalmi, the sons of Hanan.
47	The sons of Giddel, the sons of Gahar, the sons of Reaiah,
48	The sons of Rezin, the sons of Nekoda, the sons of Gazztam,
49	The sons of Uzza, the sons of Paseah, the sons of Besai,
50	The sons of Asnah, the sons of Mehunim, the sons of Nephusim,
51	The sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Harhur,
52	The sons of Bazluth, the sons of Mehida, the sons of Harsha,
53	The sons of Barkos, the sons of Sisera, the sons of Thamah,
54	The sons of Neziah, the sons of Hatipha.
55	The sons of Solomon’s servants: the sons of Sotai, the sons of Sophereth, the sons of Peruda,
56	The sons of Jaalah, the sons of Darkon, the eons of Giddel,
57	The sons of Shephatiah, the sons of Hattil, the sons of Pochereth of Zebaim, the sons of Ami.
58	All the Nethinims, the sons of Solomon’s servants, three hundred ninety and two.
59	And these going up from Tel-Melah Tel-Harsa, Cherub, Addan, Immer and they were not able to announce their father’s house, and their seed, if they were from Israel.
60	The sons of Delaiah, the sons of Tobiah, the sons of Nekoda, six hundred fifty and two.
61	From the sons of the priests: the sons of Habiah, the sons of Koz, the sons of Barzillai, who took a wife from the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and he will be called by their name.
62	These sought their writing of those being enrolled, and they found not: and they will be polluted from the priesthood.
63	And the Tirshatha will say to them, that they shall not eat from the holy of holies till there stood up a priest for Lights and Truth.
64	All the convocation as one, four myriads two thousand three hundred and sixty,
65	Besides their servants and their maids, these seven thousand three hundred thirty and seven: and to them singing men and singing women, two hundred.
66	Their horses seven hundred thirty and six; their mules, two hundred forty and five;
67	Their camels, four hundred thirty and five; the asses, six thousand seven hundred and twenty.
68	And from the heads of the fathers in their coming to the house of Jehovah which is in Jerusalem, gave willingly to the house of God to cause it to stand upon its foundation:
69	According to their power they gave to the treasure of the work of gold six myriads and a thousand darics, and of silver, five thousand portions, and of priests’ tunics, a hundred.
70	And the priests dwelt, and the Levites, and from the people, and those singing, and those opening the gates, and the Nethinims, in their cities, and all Israel in their cities.