1	At that time Darius the king set up a decree, and they searched in the house of books, the treasures being deposited there in Babel.
2	And there was found in Achmetha in the fortress that in the Median province, one roll, and thus a record was written in its midst.
3	In one year to Cyrus the king, Cyrus the king set a decree of the house of God in Jerusalem, The house shall be built, the place that they sacrificed sacrifices, and its foundations being erected; its height sixty cubits, and its breadth sixty cubits;
4	And three layers of stone of magnitude: and a layer of new wood: and the outgoing shall be given from the king’s house:
5	And also the vessels of the house of God of gold and of silver that Nebuchadnezzar brought forth from the temple that is in Jerusalem, and brought to Babel, shall be restored, and shall go to the temple that is in Jerusalem, to its place, and be taken into the house of God.
6	Now Tatnai prefect beyond the river, Shethar-Bozni, and their colleagues the Apharsachites that are beyond the river, be ye far off from thence:
7	Leave to the works of this house of God: the prefect of the Jews and the old men of the Jews, they shall build this house of God upon its place.
8	And from me a decree was set up for that which ye shall do with the old men of these Jews for building this house of God: and the king’s riches, that of the tribute beyond the river, expenses shall be speedily given to these men, not to be made to cease.
9	And whatever being necessary, and the young of cattle and rams and lambs, for burnt-offerings to the God of the heavens, wheat, salt, wine, and oil, according to the saying of the priests that are in Jerusalem, to be given to them day by day, not resting:
10	That therefore bringing near sweet odors to the God of the heavens, praying for the life of the king and his sons.
11	And from me a decree was set up that every man that shall change this word, wood shall be pulled down from his house, and being raised up he shall be fastened upon it; and his house shall be made a dung-hill for this.
12	And God who shall cause his name to dwell there shall cast down every king and people that shall send forth his hand to change, to destroy this house of God that is in Jerusalem. I Darius set up a decree; it shall be done speedily.
13	Then Tatnai, prefect beyond the river Shethar-Boznai, and three colleagues, because of that Darius the king sent, thus they did speedily.
14	And the old men of the Jews built and prospered in the prophesy of Haggai the prophet, and Zechariah son of Iddo. And built and completed according to the decree of the God of Israel, and from the decree of Cyrus and Darius, and Arthasatha king of Persia.
15	And this house was finished even to the third day to the month Adar, which was the sixth year to the kingdom of Darius the king.
16	And the sons of Israel, the priests and the Levites and the rest of the sons of the exile, made the consecration of this house of God in gladness.
17	And they brought near to the consecration of this house of God a hundred oxen, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs; and he goats of the goats for sin, for all Israel twelve, for the number of the tribes of Israel.
18	And they set up the priests in their division, and the Levites in their classes, for the work of God which is in Jerusalem; according to the writing of the book of Moses.
19	And the sons of the exile will do the passover in the fourteenth to the first month.
20	For the priests and Levites were purified as one, all of them being purified; and they will slaughter the pass over for all the sons of the exile, and for their brethren the priests, and for themselves.
21	And the sons of Israel will eat; those turning back from exile and every one being separated from the uncleanness of the nations of the earth to them, to seek for Jehovah the God of Israel;
22	And they will do the festival of the unleavened seven days in gladness: for Jehovah gladdened them, and turned the heart of the king of Assur to them, to strengthen their hands in the work of the house of God, the God of Israel.