1	So then, what shall we say that Abraham had achieved, who is our father according to the flesh?
2	For if Abraham was justified by works, he would have glory, but not with God.
3	For what does Scripture say? “Abram believed God, and it was reputed to him unto justice.”
4	But for he who works, wages are not accounted according to grace, but according to debt.
5	Yet truly, for he who does not work, but who believes in him who justifies the impious, his faith is reputed unto justice, according to the purpose of the grace of God.
6	Similarly, David also declares the blessedness of a man, to whom God brings justice without works:
7	“Blessed are they whose iniquities have been forgiven and whose sins have been covered.
8	Blessed is the man to whom the Lord has not imputed sin.”
9	Does this blessedness, then, remain only in the circumcised, or is it even in the uncircumcised? For we say that faith was reputed to Abraham unto justice.
10	But then how was it reputed? In circumcision or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.
11	For he received the sign of circumcision as a symbol of the justice of that faith which exists apart from circumcision, so that he might be the father of all those who believe while uncircumcised, so that it might also be reputed to them unto justice,
12	and he might be the father of circumcision, not only for those who are of circumcision, but even for those who follow the footsteps of that faith which is in the uncircumcision of our father Abraham.
13	For the Promise to Abraham, and to his posterity, that he would inherit the world, was not through the law, but through the justice of faith.
14	For if those who are of the law are the heirs, then faith becomes empty and the Promise is abolished.
15	For the law works unto wrath. And where there is no law, there is no law-breaking.
16	Because of this, it is from faith according to grace that the Promise is ensured for all posterity, not only for those who are of the law, but also for those who are of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all before God,
17	in whom he believed, who revives the dead and who calls those things that do not exist into existence. For it is written: “I have established you as the father of many nations.”
18	And he believed, with a hope beyond hope, so that he might become the father of many nations, according to what was said to him: “Thus shall your posterity shall be.”
19	And he was not weakened in faith, nor did he consider his own body to be dead (though he was then almost one hundred years old), nor the womb of Sarah to be dead.
20	And then, in the Promise of God, he did not hesitate out of distrust, but instead he was strengthened in faith, giving glory to God,
21	knowing most fully that whatever God has promised, he is also able to accomplish.
22	And for this reason, it was reputed to him unto justice.
23	Now this has been written, that it was reputed to him unto justice, not only for his sake,
24	but also for our sake. For the same shall be reputed to us, if we believe in him who raised up our Lord Jesus Christ from the dead,
25	who was handed over because of our offenses, and who rose again for our justification.