1	Now, faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not apparent.
2	For this reason, the ancients were given testimony.
3	By faith, we understand the world to be fashioned by the Word of God, so that the visible might be made by the invisible.
4	By faith, Abel offered to God a much better sacrifice than that of Cain, through which he obtained testimony that he was just, in that God offered testimony to his gifts. And through that sacrifice, he still speaks to us, though he is dead.
5	By faith, Enoch was transferred, so that he would not see death, and he was not found because God had transferred him. For before he was transferred, he had testimony that he pleased God.
6	But without faith, it is impossible to please God. For whoever approaches God must believe that he exists, and that he rewards those who seek him.
7	By faith, Noah, having accepted an answer about those things which were not yet seen, being afraid, fashioned an ark for the salvation of his house. Through the ark, he condemned the world, and was established as the heir of the justice that occurs through faith.
8	By faith, the one called Abraham obeyed, going out to the place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going.
9	By faith, he stayed in the Land of the Promise as if in a foreign land, dwelling in cottages, with Isaac and Jacob, co-heirs of the same promise.
10	For he was awaiting a city having firm foundations, whose designer and builder is God.
11	By faith also, Sarah herself, being barren, received the ability to conceive offspring, even though she was past that age in life. For she believed him to be faithful, who had promised.
12	Because of this, there were also born, from one who himself was as if dead, a mulititude like the stars of heaven, who are, like the sand of the seashore, innumerable.
13	All of these passed away, adhering to faith, not having received the promises, yet beholding them from afar and saluting them, and confessing themselves to be sojourners and guests upon the earth.
14	For those who speak in this way are themselves indicating that they seek a homeland.
15	And if, indeed, they had been mindful of the very place from which they departed, they certainly would have returned in time.
16	But now they hunger for a better place, that is, Heaven. For this reason, God is not ashamed to be called their God. For he has prepared a city for them.
17	By faith, Abraham, when he was tested, offered Isaac, so that he who had received the promises was offering up his only son.
18	To him, it was said, “Through Isaac, shall your offspring be summoned,”
19	indicating that God is even able to raise up from the dead. And thus, he also established him as a parable.
20	By faith, also, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, concerning future events.
21	By faith, Jacob, as he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph; and he reverenced the summit of his rod.
22	By faith, Joseph, as he was dying, recalled the departure of the sons of Israel, and gave a commandment concerning his bones.
23	By faith, Moses, after being born, was hidden for three months by his parents, because they had seen that he was a graceful infant, and they did not fear the king’s edict.
24	By faith, Moses, after growing up, denied himself a place as the son of Pharaoh’s daughter,
25	choosing to be afflicted with the people of God, rather than to have the pleasantness of sin for a time,
26	valuing the reproach of Christ to be a greater wealth than the treasures of the Egyptians. For he looked forward to his reward.
27	By faith, he abandoned Egypt, not dreading the animosity of the king. For he pressed on, as if seeing him who is unseen.
28	By faith, he celebrated the Passover and the shedding of the blood, so that he who destroyed the firstborn might not touch them.
29	By faith, they crossed the Red Sea, as if on dry land, yet when the Egyptians attempted it, they were swallowed up.
30	By faith, the walls of Jericho collapsed, after being encircled for seven days.
31	By faith, Rahab, the harlot, did not perish with the unbelievers, after receiving the spies with peace.
32	And what should I say next? For time is not sufficient for me to give an account of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel, and the Prophets:
33	those who, by faith, conquered kingdoms, accomplished justice, obtained promises, closed the mouths of lions,
34	extinguished the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, recovered from infirmities, showed strength in battle, turned back the armies of foreigners.
35	Women received their dead by means of resurrection. But others suffered severe punishment, not yet receiving redemption, so that they would find a better resurrection.
36	Truly, others were tested by mocking and lashes, and moreover by chains and imprisonment.
37	They were stoned; they were cut; they were tempted. With the slaughter of the sword, they were killed. They wandered about in sheepskin and in goatskin, in dire need, in anguish afflicted.
38	Of them, the world was not worthy, wandering in solitude on mountains, in the caves and caverns of the earth.
39	And all these, having been proven by the testimony of faith, did not receive the Promise.
40	God’s Providence holds something better for us, so that not without us would they be perfected.