1	Therefore, holy brothers, sharers in the heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession: Jesus.
2	He is faithful to the One who made him, just as Moses also was, with his entire house.
3	For this Jesus was considered worthy of greater glory than Moses, so much so that the house which he has built holds a greater honor than the former one.
4	For every house is built by someone, but God is the One who has created all things.
5	And certainly Moses was faithful, with his entire house, like any servant, as a testimony to those things that would soon be said.
6	Yet truly, Christ is like a Son in his own house. We are that house, if we firmly retain the faithfulness and the glory of hope, even unto the end.
7	Because of this, it is just as the Holy Spirit says: “If today you hear his voice,
8	harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, the very day of temptation, in the desert,
9	where your fathers tested me, even though they had seen and examined my works for forty years.
10	For this reason, I was enraged against this generation, and I said: They always wander astray in heart. For they have not known my ways.
11	So it is as I swore in my wrath: They shall not enter into my rest!”
12	Be cautious, brothers, lest perhaps there may be, in any of you, an evil heart of unbelief, turning aside from the living God.
13	Instead, exhort one another every day, while it is still called ‘today,’ so that none of you may become hardened through the falseness of sin.
14	For we have been made participants in Christ. This is only so, if we firmly retain the beginning of his substance, even unto the end.
15	For it has been said: “If today you hear his voice, harden not your hearts, in the same manner as in the former provocation.”
16	For some of those listening did provoke him. But not all of these had set forth from Egypt through Moses.
17	So against whom was he angry for forty years? Was it not those who had sinned, whose dead bodies lay prostrate in the desert?
18	But to whom did he swear that they would not enter into his rest, except to those who were incredulous?
19	And so, we perceive that they were not able to enter because of unbelief.