1	For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the Most High God, met Abraham, as he was returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him.
2	And Abraham divided to him a tenth part of everything. And in translation his name is first, indeed, king of justice, and next also king of Salem, that is, king of peace.
3	Without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days, nor end of life, he is thereby likened to the Son of God, who remains a priest continuously.
4	Next, consider how great this man is, since the Patriarch Abraham even gave tithes to him from the principal things.
5	And indeed, those who are from the sons of Levi, having received the priesthood, hold a commandment to take tithes from the people in accord with the law, that is, from their brothers, even though they also went forth from the loins of Abraham.
6	But this man, whose lineage is not enumerated with them, received tithes from Abraham, and he blessed even the one who held the promises.
7	Yet this is without any contradiction, for what is less should be blessed by what is better.
8	And certainly, here, men who receive tithes still die; but there, he bears witness that he lives.
9	And so it may be said that even Levi, who received tithes, was himself a tithe through Abraham.
10	For he was still in the loins of his father, when Melchizedek met him.
11	Therefore, if consummation had occurred through the Levitical priesthood (for under it the people received the law), then what further need would there be for another Priest to rise up according to the order of Melchizedek, one who was not called according to the order of Aaron?
12	For since the priesthood has been transferred, it is necessary that the law also be transferred.
13	For he about whom these things have been spoken is from another tribe, in which no one attends before the altar.
14	For it is evident that our Lord arose out of Judah, a tribe about which Moses said nothing concerning priests.
15	And yet it is far more evident that, according to the likeness of Melchizedek, there rises up another priest,
16	who was made, not according to the law of a carnal commandment, but according to the virtue of an indissoluble life.
17	For he testifies: “You are a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek.”
18	Certainly, there is a setting aside of the former commandment, because of its weakness and lack of usefulness.
19	For the law led no one to perfection, yet truly it introduced a better hope, through which we draw near to God.
20	Moreover, it is not without an oath. For certainly, the others were made priests without an oath.
21	But this man was made a priest with an oath, by the One who said to him: “The Lord has sworn and he will not repent. You are a priest forever.”
22	By so much, Jesus has been made the sponsor of a better testament.
23	And certainly, so many of the others became priests because, due to death, they were prohibited from continuing.
24	But this man, because he continues forever, has an everlasting priesthood.
25	And for this reason, he is able, continuously, to save those who approach God through him, since he is ever alive to make intercession on our behalf.
26	For it was fitting that we should have such a High Priest: holy, innocent, undefiled, set apart from sinners, and exalted higher than the heavens.
27	And he has no need, daily, in the manner of other priests, to offer sacrifices, first for his own sins, and then for those of the people. For he has done this once, by offering himself.
28	For the law appoints men as priests, though they have infirmities. But, by the word of the oath that is after the law, the Son has been perfected for eternity.