1	What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound?
2	God forbid. How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein?
3	Know you not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death?
4	Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life.
5	For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection:
6	Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that from now on we should not serve sin.
7	For he that is dead is freed from sin.
8	Now if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him:
9	Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dies no more; death has no more dominion over him.
10	For in that he died, he died to sin once: but in that he lives, he lives to God.
11	Likewise reckon you also yourselves to be dead indeed to sin, but alive to God through Jesus Christ our Lord.
12	Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that you should obey it in the lusts thereof.
13	Neither yield you your members as instruments of unrighteousness to sin: but yield yourselves to God, as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness to God.
14	For sin shall not have dominion over you: for you are not under the law, but under grace.
15	What then? shall we sin, because we are not under the law, but under grace? God forbid.
16	Know you not, that to whom you yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants you are to whom you obey; whether of sin to death, or of obedience to righteousness?
17	But God be thanked, that you were the servants of sin, but you have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which was delivered you.
18	Being then made free from sin, you became the servants of righteousness.
19	I speak after the manner of men because of the infirmity of your flesh: for as you have yielded your members servants to uncleanness and to iniquity to iniquity; even so now yield your members servants to righteousness to holiness.
20	For when you were the servants of sin, you were free from righteousness.
21	What fruit had you then in those things whereof you are now ashamed? for the end of those things is death.
22	But now being made free from sin, and become servants to God, you have your fruit to holiness, and the end everlasting life.
23	For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.