1	For ye yourselves know, brethren, our entrance to you, that it was not in vain:
2	But also having suffered before, and having been injured, as ye know, among the Philippians, we acted freely in our God to speak to you the good news of God with much contest.
3	For our entreaty nor from error, nor from uncleanness, nor in deceit:
4	But as we have been tried by God to be entrusted with the good news, so we speak; not as pleasing men, but God, trying our hearts:
5	For neither once in word were we flatterers, as ye know, neither in a pretext of covetousness; God the witness:
6	Neither seeking glory of men, nor of you, nor of others, being able to be in weight, as the sent of Christ.
7	But we were gentle in the midst of you, as a nurse should cherish her children:
8	So longing for you, we are contented to impart to you, not only the good news of God, but also our own souls, because ye are dearly beloved to us.
9	For ye remember, brethren, our fatigue and toil: for also working night and day, not to overload any of you, we proclaimed to you the good news of God.
10	Ye witnesses, and God, how holily and justly and unblamably we were to you the believing:
11	As ye know how each one of you, as a father his children, comforting and encouraging, and testifying,
12	For you to walk worthy of God, calling you into his kingdom and glory.
13	For this also we return thanks to God continually, that, having received the word of God from our report, ye received not the word of man, but as it is truly, the word of God, which is also energetic in you the believing.
14	For ye, brethren, were imitators of the churches of God being in Judea in Christ Jesus: for ye also suffered the same things by your own race, as they also by the Jews:
15	They also having slain the Lord Jesus, and their own prophets, and having driven you out; and not pleasing God, and opposite to all men;
16	Hindering us from speaking to the nations that they might be saved, to fill up their sins always: and the wrath of God has come before upon them even to the end.
17	And we, brethren, having been separated from you for a due measure of time, in face, not in heart, we were the more excessively zealous to see your face with much eager desire.
18	Wherefore we would have come to you, I Paul, truly also once and twice; and the adversary hindered us.
19	For what our hope, or joy, or crown of boasting? Are not also ye before our Lord Jesus Christ in his arrival?
20	For ye are our glory and joy.