1	Therefore as to the rest, brethren we ask you, and beseech in the Lord Jesus, as ye received from us how ye must walk and please God, that ye may more abound.
2	For ye know what orders we gave you by the Lord Jesus.
3	For this is the will of God, your consecration, that ye should keep away from fornication:
4	For each of you to know how to possess his vessel in consecration and honour;
5	Not in the passion of eager desire, as also the nations not knowing God:
6	Not to pass over and have the advantage over his brother in business: because the Lord just for all these, as we told you before and testified.
7	But God has not called you to uncleanness, but in consecration.
8	For surely therefore he despising, despises not man, but God, he also giving his holy Spirit for us.
9	And for brotherly love ye have no need to write to you: for ye yourselves are taught of God to love one another.
10	For also ye do the same to all the brethren, them in the whole of Macedonia: and we beseech you, brethren, to more abound;
11	And that ye be ambitions to remain quiet, and attend to your own things, and work with your own hands, as we enjoined you;
12	That ye should walk becomingly to them without, and have need of nothing.
13	And I wish you not to be ignorant, brethren, of them having been asleep, that ye should not grieve, as also the rest, they hating no hope.
14	For if we believe that Jesus died and rose up, so also God by Jesus Christ will bring with him them having slept.
15	For this we say to you in the word of the Lord, that we the living being left at the arrival of the Lord shall not get beforehand with them having slept.
16	For the Lord himself in the word of command, in the voice of the archangel, shall descend from heaven: and the dead in Christ shall be raised first:
17	Then we the living being left shall be snatched up together with them in the clouds, to the meeting of the Lord in the air: and so we shall always be with the Lord.
18	Therefore comfort ye one another with these words.