1	And of the times and seasons, brethren, ye have no need to write to you.
2	For ye yourselves know accurately that the day of the Lord, as a thief in the night, so comes.
3	For when they say, Peace and security; then sudden ruin is upon them, as anguish in her with child; and they may not escape.
4	And ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that the day as a thief overtake you.
5	Ye are all sons of light, and sons of day: we are not of night, nor of darkness.
6	Therefore let us not sleep, as also the rest; but let us watch and be sober.
7	For they sleeping sleep in the night; and they drunken are drunken in the night.
8	And we, being of the day, let us be sober, putting on the coat of mail of faith and love; and a helmet, the hope of salvation.
9	For God set us not for wrath, but for the acquisition of salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ,
10	He having died for us, that, whether we watch or sleep, we should live together with him.
11	Wherefore comfort one another, and build up one another, as also ye do.
12	And we ask you, brethren, to know those being fatigued among you, and set over you in the Lord, and reminding you;
13	And to think them above ordinary in love for their work. Live in peace in yourselves.
14	And we beseech you, brethren, remind the disorderly, encourage the timid, sustain the weak, and be slow to anger to all.
15	See that any return not evil to any: but always pursue good to one another, and to all.
16	Rejoice always.
17	Pray continually.
18	In every thing return thanks: for this the will of God in Christ Jesus toward you.
19	Quench not the Spirit.
20	Set not prophecies at nought.
21	Try all things; hold the good.
22	Keep away from all appearance of evil.
23	And the same God of peace consecrate you perfectly compete; and your whole spirit and soul and body be kept faultless to the arrival of our Lord Jesus Christ.
24	Faithful he calling you, who also will do.
25	Brethren, pray for us.
26	Greet all the brethren in a holy kiss.
27	I bind you by oath, for the epistle to be read to all the holy brethren.
28	The Grace of our Lord Jesus Christ with you. Amen.