1	There shall not be to the priests the Levites, all the tribe of Levi, part and inheritance with Israel: the sacrifices of Jehovah and his inheritance they shall eat.
2	And an inheritance shall not be to him in the midst of his brethren: Jehovah, he is his inheritance, as he spake to him.
3	And this shall be the judgment of the priests from the people, from those sacrificing a sacrifice, whether an ox or a sheep; and give to the priest the shoulder, the cheeks and the maw.
4	The first fruits of thy grain, of thy new wine, and thy new oil, and the first of the fleece of thy sheep thou shalt give to him.
5	For in him Jehovah thy God chose from all thy tribes to stand to serve in the name of Jehovah, he and his sons all the days.
6	And when the Levite shall come from one of thy gates from all Israel where he sojourned there, and he came with all the desire of his soul to the place which Jehovah shall choose:
7	And serving in the name of Jehovah his God as all his brethren the Levites standing there before Jehovah.
8	Portion according to portion shall they eat, besides his sellings according to the fathers.
9	When thou comest to the land which Jehovah thy God gave to thee, thou shalt not learn to do according to the abominations of those nations.
10	There shall not be found in thee him causing his son or his daughter to pass through in fire, divining divinations, practicing magic, and taking omens and a sorcerer,
11	And charming a spell, and asking of a necromancer, and a wizard, and seeking to the dead.
12	For every one doing these things is an abomination to Jehovah And on account of these abominations, Jehovah thy God destroys them from thy face.
13	Thou shalt be perfect with Jehovah thy God.
14	For these nations which thou shalt possess them, they will hear to those practicing magic, and to those divining: and thou, not thus, gave Jehovah thy God to thee.
15	A prophet from the midst of thee, from thy brethren, like me Jehovah thy God shall raise up to thee; to him shall ye hear.
16	According to all thou didst ask from Jehovah thy God in Horeb, in the day of the gathering, saying, I will not add to hear the voice of Jehovah my God, and this great fire I will no more see, and I shall not die.
17	And Jehovah will say to me, They did well in what they spake.
18	A prophet will I raise up to them from the midst of their brethren, like thee, and I gave my word in his mouth, and he spake to them all that I shall command him.
19	And it was the man who shall not hear to my word which he shall speak in my name, I will require from him.
20	But the prophet which shall act proudly to speak the word in my name which I commanded him not to speak, and who shall speak in the name of other gods, and that prophet died.
21	And when thou shalt say in thy heart, How shall we know the word which Jehovah spake not?
22	The prophet who shall speak in the name of Jehovah, and the word shall not be and shall not come, it is the word that Jehovah spake not; in pride the prophet spake it: thou shalt not be afraid of him.