1	Thou shalt not see the ox of thy brother or his sheep wandering, and thou shalt not hide from them: turning back, thou shalt turn them back to thy brother.
2	And if thy brother is not near to thee and thou knew him not, and thou receivedst it in the midst of thy house, and it was with thee till thy brother sought it and thou gavest it back to him.
3	And so shalt thou do to his ass, and so shalt thou do to his garments, and shalt thou do to all lost things of thy brother which shall be lost from him, and thou didst find it; thou shalt not be able to hide.
4	Thou shalt not see thy brother’s ass or his ox fallen in the way, and hide from them: lifting up, thou shalt lift up with him.
5	The equipment of a man shall not be upon a woman, and a man shall not put on a woman’s garment, for all doing these things are an abomination to Jehovah thy God.
6	When a bird’s nest shall be found before thee in the way in any tree or upon the earth, the young broods or the eggs, and the mother reclining upon the young birds, or upon the eggs, thou shalt not take the mother upon the sons.
7	Sending, thou shalt send away the mother, and the sons thou shalt take to thee, so that it shall be well to thee and thou prolongedst the days.
8	When thou shalt build a new house thou shalt make a ledge to thy roof, and thou shalt not put bloods upon thy house, if he shall fall from it.
9	Thou shalt not sow thy vineyard with a diversity, lest the fulness of thy seed which thou shalt sow shall be consecrated, and the produce of the vineyard.
10	Thou shalt not plough with an ox and ass together.
11	Thou shalt not put on any thing adulterated, wool and linen together.
12	Thou shalt make to thee twisted threads upon the four wings of thy covering with which thou shalt be covered.
13	If any man shall take a wife, and went in to her and hated her,
14	And he set pretexts of words against her, and brought up an evil name upon her, and said, I took this woman, and I shall come near to her, and I found in her not a virgin:
15	And the father of the young girl took, and her mother, and brought the signs of virginity of the young girl to the elders of the city to the gate:
16	And the father of the maiden said to the old men, I gave my daughter to this man for a wife and he will hate her,
17	And behold, he set up pretexts of words, saying, I found not in thy daughter the signs of virginity; and these the signs of my daughter’s virginity. And they spread the garment before the old men of the city.
18	And the old men of that city took the man and chastised him;
19	And they amerced him a hundred of silver, and gave to the father of the maiden, for he brought out an evil name upon a virgin of Israel: and she shall be to him for a wife; he shall not be able to send her away all his days.
20	And if this word was the truth, and the signs of virginity not found for the maiden:
21	And they brought the maiden to the door of the house of her father, and the men of her city stoned her with stones and she died; for she did folly in Israel to commit fornication in her father’s house: and thou didst put away evil from the midst of thee.
22	When a man shall be found lying with the woman mistress of a husband, and they died, also they two, the man lying with the woman, and the woman: and thou didst put away evil from Israel.
23	When there shall be a maiden, a virgin, betrothed to a man, and a man found her in the city and lay with her;
24	And ye brought out them two to the gate of that city, and stoned them with stones, and they died; and the maiden for the word which she cried not in the city, and the man for the word which he humbled his neighbor’s wife: and thou didst put away evil from the midst of thee.
25	And if in the field the man shall find the betrothed maiden, and the man held fast upon her, and lay with her, and the man that lay with her died alone.
26	And to the maiden thou shalt not do a word; not to the maiden the sin of death: for as a man shall rise up against his friend, and he killed him the soul, so this word.
27	For in the field he found her, the betrothed maiden cried and none saving her.
28	When a man shall find a maiden, a virgin, which is not betrothed, and lay hold upon her and lay with her, and they were found;
29	And the man lying with her gave to the maiden’s father fifty of silver, and to him she shall be for a wife; because that he humbled her, he shall not be able to send her away all his days.
30	A man shall not take his father’s wife and shall not uncover his father’s wing.