1	If there shall be a controversy between men and they drew near to judgment, and they judged them; and they justified the just and condemned the unjust.
2	And it was if the unjust be the son of smiting and the judge caused him to fall down and beat him before his face in proportion to his fault, by a number.
3	Forty he shall beat him; He shall not add, lest he shall add to strike him above them with much beating, and thy brother was despised before thine eyes.
4	Thou shalt not muzzle the ox treading.
5	If brethren shall dwell together and one of them died, and a son not to him, the wife of the dead shall not be without to a man a stranger: her husband’s brother shall go in to her, and he took her to him for a wife, and he acted the husband’s brother to her.
6	And it is the first-born which she shall bear shall rise up upon the name of his brother the dead, and his name shall not be wiped from Israel.
7	And if the man shall not desire to take his brother’s wife, and his brother’s wife went up to the gate to the old men, and said, My husband’s brother refused to raise up to his brother a name in Israel, and he would not act my husband’s brother.
8	And the old men of his city called to him and spake to him: and he stood and said, I desired not to take her.
9	And his brother’s wife drew near to him before the eyes of the old men, and drew off his shoe from his foot, and spit in his face, and answered and said, Thus shall it be done to the man who will not build up the house of his brother.
10	And his name was called in Israel, The house of him having his shoe drawn off.
11	When men shall strive together, a man and his brother, and the wife of the one come near to deliver her husband from him smiting him, and she stretched forth her hand and held fast by his secrets:
12	And cut off her hand, thine eye shall not pity.
13	There shall not be to thee in thy receptacle a stone and a stone, great and small.
14	There shall not be to thee in thy house an ephah and an ephah, great and small.
15	A stone complete and just shall be to thee; an ephah complete and just.
16	For an abomination are all doing these things, all doing evil.
17	Remember what Amalek did to thee in the way, in your coming forth out of Egypt:
18	That he met thee in the way, and he will smite the rear in thee all the enfeebled behind thee, and thou faint and weary: and he feared not God.
19	And it was in Jehovah thy God giving rest to thee from all thine enemies from round about in the land which Jehovah thy God gave to thee an inheritance to possess it, thou shalt wipe out the remembrance of Amalek from under the heavens; thou shalt not forget.