1	And it being if hearing thou shalt hear to the voice of Jehovah thy God, to watch and to do all his commands that I command thee this day, and Jehovah thy God gave thee high above all the nations of the earth.
2	And all these blessings came upon thee and overtook thee, when thou shalt hear to the voice of Jehovah thy God.
3	Blessed thou in the city, blessed thou in the field.
4	Blessed the fruit of thy belly, and the fruit of thy land, and the fruit of thy cattle, the offspring of thine oxen and the flocks of thy sheep.
5	Blessed thy basket and thy remainders.
6	Blessed thou in thy coming in, and blessed thou in thy going out.
7	Jehovah will give thine enemies rising up against thee smitten before thy face; in one way shall they come forth against thee, and in seven ways shall they flee before thy face.
8	Jehovah will command with thee the blessing in thy store-houses, and in all the sending forth of thy hand; and he blessed thee in the land which Jehovah thy God gave to thee.
9	Jehovah will raise thee up to him for a holy people, as he sware to thee, when thou shalt watch the commands of Jehovah thy God and go in his ways.
10	And all the peoples of the earth saw that the name of Jehovah was called upon thee; and they were afraid of thee.
11	And Jehovah made thee to abound for good in the fruit of thy belly, and in the fruit of thy cattle, and in the fruit of thy land, upon the land which Jehovah sware to thy fathers to give to thee.
12	Jehovah will open to thee his good store, the heavens to give the rain of thy land in its time, and to bless all the doing of thy hand: and thou didst lend to many nations, and thou shalt not borrow.
13	And Jehovah gave thee for head, and not for tail: and thou wert only for ascending, and thou shalt not be for beneath; when thou shalt hear to the commands of Jehovah thy God that I command thee this day, to watch and to do.
14	And thou shalt not turn aside from all the words which I command you this day, to the right and to the left, to go after other gods to serve them.
15	And it being, if thou shalt not hear to the voice of Jehovah thy God, to watch to do all his commands and his laws which I command thee this day; and all these curses came upon thee, and overtook thee:
16	Cursed thou in the city, and cursed thou in the field.
17	Cursed thy basket and thy remainders.
18	Cursed the fruit of thy belly, and the fruit of thy land, the offspring of thine oxen, and the flocks of thy sheep.
19	Cursed thou in thy coming in, and cursed thou in thy going out.
20	Jehovah will send upon thee the curse and the consternation, and the rebuke, upon all the sending forth of thy hand which thou shalt do, till he destroyed thee, and till he caused thee to perish quickly: on account of the evil of thy works by which thou forsookest me.
21	Jehovah shall cleave upon thee death, till his consuming thee from the land which thou wentest there to possess it.
22	Jehovah shall strike thee with consumption, and with burning fever, and with inflammation, and with sword and with burning, and with blasting, and with yellowness: and they shall pursue thee till he have destroyed thee.
23	And the heavens which over thy head were brass, and the earth which is under thee, iron.
24	Jehovah will give the rain of thy land dust and clay: from the heavens shall it come down upon thee, till he destroyed thee.
25	And Jehovah will give thee smitten before thine enemies: in one way thou shalt go forth against him, and in seven ways shalt thou flee before his face; and thou wert for a shaking to all the kingdoms of the earth.
26	And thy carcass was for food to all the birds of the heavens and to the cattle of the earth, and none terrifying.
27	Jehovah shall strike thee with the burning sore of Egypt, and with tumors, and with scratching, and with the itch of which thou shalt not be able to be healed.
28	Jehovah will strike thee with madness and with blindness and with astonishment of heart;
29	And thou wert groping at noon as the blind shall grope in darkness, and thou shalt not succeed with thy ways: and thou wert only oppressed and stripped all the days, and none saving.
30	Thou shalt betroth a wife, and another man shall lie with her: thou shalt build a house and shall not dwell in it; thou shalt plant a vineyard and thou shalt not lay it open.
31	Thine ox slaughtered before thine eyes and thou shalt not eat from it: thine ass stripped from before thee and shall not turn back to thee; thy sheep, given to thine enemies, and none to thee saving.
32	Thy sons and thy daughters given to another people, and thine eyes seeing and failing for them all the day: and nothing for the strength of thy hand.
33	The fruit of thy land and all thy labors, a people which thou knewest not shall eat: and thou wert only oppressed and broken all the days.
34	And thou wert mad from the sight of thine eyes which thou shalt see.
35	Jehovah shall strike thee with an evil burning sore upon thy knees and upon thy legs, which thou shalt not be able to heal from the sole of thy foot to thy crown.
36	Jehovah shall lead thee, and thy king which thou shalt set up over thee, to a nation which thou knewest not thou and thy fathers; and thou servedst there other gods, wood and stone.
37	And thou wert for an astonishment, for a parable, for a sharp saying in all the peoples where Jehovah shall lead thee there.
38	Thou shalt bring out much seed to thy field, and shalt gather little, for the locust shall devour it.
39	Thou shalt plant vineyards and thou shalt work; and thou shalt not drink the wine, and thou shalt not gather, for the worm shall eat it.
40	Olive trees shall be to thee in all thy boundaries, and thou shalt not be anointed with oil, for thine olive shall slip away.
41	And thou shalt beget sons and daughters, and they shall not be to thee, for they shall go into captivity.
42	All thy wood and the fruit of thy land shall the grasshopper seize.
43	The stranger which is in the midst of thee shall go up above thee, going up, going up; and thou shalt go down beneath, beneath.
44	He shall lend to thee and thou shalt not lend to him: he shall be for head, and thou shalt be for tail.
45	And all these curses came upon thee and pursued thee and overtook thee, till he destroyed thee; for thou heardst not to the voice of Jehovah thy God, to watch his commands and his laws which he commanded thee.
46	And they were upon thee for a sign and for a wonder, and upon thy seed even to forever.
47	Because that thou servedst not Jehovah thy God in joy and in a good heart for the multitude of all things.
48	And thou servedst thine enemies which Jehovah shall send forth against thee in hunger and in thirst, and in nakedness, and in want of all things and he gave a yoke of iron upon thy neck till his destroying thee.
49	Jehovah shall raise up against thee a nation from far off, from the extremity of the earth, as the eagle shall fly, whose tongue thou shalt not hear;
50	A nation strong of face who shall not lift up the face to the old man, and shall not compassionate the young.
51	And it shall eat the fruit of thy cattle, and the fruit of thy land till he destroyed thee: which shall not leave to thee grain, new wine or new oil, the offspring of thine oxen and the flocks of thy sheep, till his destroying thee.
52	And he passed upon thee in all thy gates until the coming down of thy high and inaccessible fortresses which thou trustest in them in all thy land: and he passed upon thee in all thy gates in all thy land which Jehovah thy God gave to thee.
53	And thou atest the fruit of thy belly, the flesh of thy sons and thy daughters, which Jehovah thy God gave to thee, in the distress and in the straitness which thine enemy shall press upon thee:
54	The man tender in thee, and very delicate, his eye shall be evil upon his brother, and upon the wife of his bosom, and upon the remainder of his sons which he shall leave:
55	The gift to one of them of the flesh of his sons which he shall eat from: nothing remaining to him of all things in the distress and in the straitness which his enemy shall press upon thee in all thy gates.
56	She tender and delicate in thee, who tried not to set the sole of her foot upon the earth from delicateness and tenderness, her eye shall be evil upon the husband of her bosom, and upon her son, and upon her daughter,
57	And upon her afterbirth coming forth from between her feet, and upon her sons which she shall bear: for she will eat them in want of all things, in secret, in the distress and in the straitness which thine enemy shall press upon thee in thy gates.
58	If thou shalt not watch to do all the words of this law being written in this book, to fear this honored and fearful name JEHOVAH THY GOD;
59	And Jehovah made thy smiting wonderful, and the smitings of thy seed, great and lasting blows, and evil and lasting diseases.
60	And he turned back upon thee all the sicknesses of Egypt, of which thou west afraid from their face, and they did cleave to thee.
61	Also every disease and every blow which is not written in the book of this law, Jehovah will bring them up upon thee, till he destroyed thee.
62	And ye were left few in extension, instead of which ye were as the stars of the heavens for multitude, because thou heardst not to the voice of Jehovah thy God.
63	And it being as Jehovah rejoiced over you to do you good and to multiply you, so Jehovah shall rejoice over you to destroy you and to cut you off; and ye were torn away from the land which thou wentest in there to possess it.
64	And Jehovah scattered thee among all peoples from the end of the earth even to the end of the earth; and thou servedst there other gods which thou knewest not, thou and thy fathers, wood and stone.
65	And among these nations thou shalt not rest, and there shall not be rest to the sole of thy foot: and Jehovah gave to thee there a trembling heart and a wasting away of the eyes, and a faintness of soul.
66	And thy lives were hung before thee; and thou wert afraid night and day, and thou shalt not trust to thy life.
67	In the morning thou shalt say, Who shall give evening? and in the evening thou shalt say, Who shall give morning? from the feat of thy heart which thou shalt fear, and from the sight of thine eyes which thou shalt see.
68	And Jehovah turned thee back to Egypt in ships, in the way; which I said to thee, Thou shalt not add more to see it: and ye were sold there to thine enemies for servants, and for maids, and none buying.