1	And we shall turn and go up the way of Bashan: and Og, king of Bashan, will come forth to our meeting, he and all his people to war at Edrei.
2	And Jehovah will say to me, Thou shalt not fear him, for into thy hand I gave him and all his people, and his land; and do to him as thou didst to Sihon, king of the Amorites, who will dwell in Hebron.
3	And Jehovah our God will give into our hand also Og, king of Bashan, and all his people: and we shall smite him till none remained to him escaping.
4	And we shall take all his cities in that time, and there was not a city which we took not from them: sixty cities, all the region of Argob, from the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
5	All these cities fortified with high walls, doors and bars; besides of cities of the open country exceedingly many.
6	And we shall exterminate them as we did to Sihon, king of Heshbon, exterminating men, women, and little ones.
7	And all the cattle and the spoil of the cities we plundered for ourselves.
8	And we shall take in that time the land out of the hand of the two kings of the Amorites, which is on the other side Jordan from the torrent Arnon, even to mount Hermon.
9	(The Sidonians will call to Hermon, Sirion; and the Amorites will call to it, Shenk.)
10	All the cities of the plain, and all Gilead, and all Bashan, even to Salchah and Edrei, cities from the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
11	For only Og, king of Bashan, remained from the remnant of the Rephaims; behold, his bed, a bed of iron; is it not in Rabbath of the sons of Ammon? nine cubits its length and four cubits its breadth, according to the cubit of a man.
12	And this land we possessed in that time from Aroer which is by the torrent Arnon, and half the mount of Gilead and its cities I gave to the Reubenites and to the Gates.
13	And the remnant of Gilead and all Bashan from the kingdom of Og, I gave to the half tribe of Manasseh; all the region of Argob and all Bashan, it will be called the land of Rephaims.
14	Jair, son of Manasseh, took all the region of Argob, even to the boundary of Geshuri and Maachathi; and he call them according to his name, Bashan-Havath-Jair, even to this day.
15	And to Machir I gave Gilead.
16	And to the Reubemtes and to the Gadites I gave from Gilead even to the torrent Anion, the midst of the torrent and the boundary and even to the emptying of the torrent, the boundary of the sons of Ammon.
17	And the sterile region, and Jordan, and the boundary from Chinnereth, and even to the sea of the desert, the salt sea under the ravines of Pisgah from the sunrising.
18	And I shall command you in that time, saying, Jehovah your God gave to you this land to possess it; ye shall pass over armed before your brethren, the sons of Israel, all sons of strength.
19	Only your wives and your little ones and your cattle (I knew that much cattle to you) they shall dwell in your cities which I gave to you,
20	Till when Jehovah shall cause your brethren to rest as you, and they also shall possess the land which Jehovah, your God, gave to them on the other side of Jordan: and ye turned back each to his possession which I gave to you.
21	And I commanded Joshua in that time, saying, Thine eyes saw all that Jehovah, your God, did to these two kings: so will Jehovah do to all the kingdoms which ye pass through there.
22	Ye shall not be afraid of them, for Jehovah, your God, he shall fight for you.
23	And I shall entreat Jehovah in that time, saying,
24	O Lord Jehovah, thou didst begin to cause thy servant to see thy greatness and thy strong hand: for what God in the heavens and in the earth will do according to thy works and according to thy strength?
25	Shall I now pass over and see the good land which is beyond Jordan, this good mountain, and Lebanon?
26	And Jehovah will pass by me on account of you, and he heard not to me: and Jehovah said to me, It was enough to thee; thou shalt not add to speak more to me concerning this word.
27	Go up to the head of Pisgah and lift up thine eyes to the sea, and to the north, and to the south, and to the sunrising, and see with thine eyes; for thou shalt not pass over this Jordan.
28	And command Joshua and strengthen him, and make him firm, for he shall pass through before this people, and he shall cause them to inherit the land which thou shalt see.
29	And we shall dwell in the valley over against the House of Opening.