1	Give ear, ye heavens, and I will speak; Thou earth shalt hear the words of my mouth.
2	My doctrine shall drop as the rain; My word shall pour out as the dew, As the showers upon the herbage, And as the rains upon the green herb:
3	For I will call the name of Jehovah: Give ye greatness to our God.
4	The Rock, his work complete: For all his ways judgment: A God of faithfulness and not of iniquity Just and right is he.
5	He acted wickedly to him; not his sons their blot: A generation perverted and crooked.
6	To Jehovah will ye recompense this, A people foolish and not wise? He thy father: did he not buy thee? He made thee, and he will protect thee.
7	Remember the days of eternity; Discern the years of generation and generation: Ask thy father, and he will announce to thee; Thy old men, and they shall say to thee.
8	The Most High distributing the nations, In his dispersing the sons of Adam, He set the bounds of the peoples According to the number of the sons of Israel.
9	For Jehovah the portion of his people; Jacob the cord of his inheritance.
10	He will find him in the land of the desert, In a waste howling desolation: He will encompass him about; he will teach him, He will keep him as the pupil of the eye.
11	As the eagle he will arouse his young brood, He will brood over his young birds; He will spread out his wings, and will take them; He will lift them up upon his wings:
12	Jehovah alone will lead him, And no strange god with him.
13	He will cause him to ride upon the heights of the land; He shall eat the produce of the field; And he shall suck honey from the rock, And oil from the flint of the rock.
14	Curdled milk of the cow, and milk of the sheep, With the fat of lambs, And rams, sons of Bashan, and he goats, With the fat of kidneys of wheat; Thou shalt drink wine, the blood of the grape.
15	And Jeshurun will be fat and will tread down: Thou wert fat, thou wert thick, thou wert covered; And he will reject God having made him, And he will despise the Rock of his deliverance.
16	He will cause him to be jealous with strangers, With abominations they will irritate him.
17	They will sacrifice to demons, not God; Gods they have not known them New ones came out from the midst; Your fathers not having feared them.
18	Thou wilt forsake the Rock begetting thee, And thou wilt forget God setting thee free.
19	And God will see and will reject, From the irritating of his sons and his daughters.
20	And he will say, I will hide my face from them; I will see what shall be after them: For they a generation of perverseness, Sons no faith in them.
21	They made me jealous with not God; They irritated me with their vanities: And I will make them jealous with not a people; With a foolish nation will I irritate them.
22	For a fire was kindled in mine anger. And it shall burn to the lowest hades, And it shall consume the land and its produce, And it shall burn the foundations of the mountains.
23	I will gather evils upon them; I will spend mine arrows upon them.
24	Exhausted with hunger, consumed with burning, And bitter destruction: And I will send upon them the tooth of beasts, With the wrath of those crawlers of the dust.
25	The sword shall bereave without, And terror from the chambers, Also the youth, also the virgin, The suckling, with the man of gray hair.
26	I have said I will blow them away, I will turn away their remembrance from man;
27	Unless I shall fear the enemy’s their adversaries shall dissemble, Lest they shall say, Our high hand And not Jehovah did all this.
28	For they a nation destroying counsels, And no understanding in them.
29	Would they were wise! will they look at this? Will they discern to their latter part?
30	How shall one chase a thousand; And two shall cause ten thousand to flee, If that their Rock had not sold them, And Jehovah delivered them up?
31	For their rock not as our Rock, And our enemies judging.
32	For their vine from the vine of Sodom, And from the fields of Gomorrah: Their grapes the grapes of poverty, The clusters of bitterness to them.
33	Their wine the wrath of dragons, And the fierce head of asps.
34	Is not this laid up with me, Sealed up in my treasuries?
35	To me vengeance and requital; At the time their foot shall waver: For the day of their destruction is near, And he hastened things prepared for them.
36	For Jehovah will judge his people, And upon his servants will he have compassion; When he shall see that the hand has failed, And nothing detained and left.
37	And he said, Where their gods, The rock they trusted in it?
38	Whose fat of their sacrifices they shall eat; They shall drink the wine of their libations They shall rise up, and they shall succor you, It shall be for you protection.
39	See ye now, that I, I am he, And no God with me: I will kill, and I will preserve alive; I struck through and through, and I will heal; And none takes away out of my hand.
40	For I will lift up my hand to the heavens, And I said, I live forever.
41	If I sharpened the lightning of my sword, And my hand shall lay hold upon judgment, I will turn back vengeance to mine adversaries, And to those hating me I will requite,
42	I will make mine arrows drunk with blood, And my sword shall eat flesh, From the blood of the wounded and the captivity, From the head of the enemy’s leaders.
43	Rejoice ye nations with him, For he will raise up the blood of his servants, And he will turn back vengeance to his adversaries, And he will expiate for his land, his people.
44	And Moses will come and speak all the words of this song in the ears of the people, he and Joshua, son of Nun.
45	And Moses will finish speaking all these words to all Israel:
46	And he will say to them, Set your hearts to all the words which I call upon you to witness this day, which ye shall command your sons to watch and to do, all the words of this law.
47	For it is not an empty word for you, but it is your life; and in this word ye shall prolong the days upon the land which ye pass through Jordan there to inherit it.
48	And Jehovah will speak to Moses in this self-same day, saying,
49	Come up to this mountain Abarim, the mountain Nebo, which is in the lend of Moab against the face of Jericho; and see the land of Canaan which I gave to the sons of Israel for a possession.
50	And die in the mountain which thou earnest there, and be gathered to thy people, as Aaron thy brother died in mount for and was gathered to his people:
51	Because ye acted treacherously against me in the midst of the sons of Israel at the waters of contradiction, of Kadesh in the desert Zin; because ye consecrated me not in the midst of the sons of Israel.
52	But thou shalt see the land from before, and thou shalt not come in there to the land which I gave to the sons of Israel.