1	And this the blessing which Moses the man of God praised the sons of Israel before his death.
2	And he will say, Jehovah came from mount Sinai, and he rose up from Seir to them; he shone forth from mount Peran, he came from ten thousand of Kadesh; from his right hand a fire of law for them.
3	Surely, he loved the peoples; all his holy ones in thy hand: they lay down at thy foot; and he will take of thy words.
4	Moses commanded a law for us, the inheritance of the gathering of Jacob.
5	And he will be king in Jeshurun, in the gathering the heads of the people, he united together the tribes of Israel.
6	Reuben shall live and shall not die; and his men shall be of number.
7	And this to Judah: and he will say, Hear, Jehovah, the voice of Judah, and thou wilt bring him to his people; his hands a multitude for him, and thou wilt be a help from his adversaries.
8	And to Levi he said, Thy Truth and thy Light to the godly man whom they tried in the trial; thou wilt contend with him at the water of contention.
9	He saying to his father and to his mother, I saw him not, and his brethren he knew not, and he knew not his sons; for they watched thy sayings and they will keep thy covenant.
10	And they shall teach thy judgments to Jacob, and thy law to Israel; they will put incense at thy nose, and whole burnt-offerings upon thine altar.
11	Bless, Jehovah, his strength, and thou wilt accept the work of his hands: smite through and through the loins of those rising up against him, and those hating him, lest they shall rise up.
12	To Benjamin he said, The beloved of Jehovah shall dwell confidently by him; he covered over him all the day, and he dwelt between his shoulders.
13	And to Joseph he said, His land from the blessing of Jehovah, from the most excellent of the heavens, from the dew and from the deep reclining beneath,
14	And from the most excellent of the produce of the sun, and from the most excellent thrust forth of the moons,
15	And from the head of the mountains of the beginning, and from the most excellent of the perpetual hills,
16	And from the most excellent of the earth and its fulness, and the acceptance of him dwelling in the bramble: it shall come to the head of Joseph, and to the crown of the consecrated of his brethren.
17	The honor to him the first-born of the bullock, his horns the horns of the unicorn: with them he will thrust the peoples together to the extremity of the earth: these the ten thousands of Ephraim, and these the thousands of Manasseh
18	And to Zebulon he said, Rejoice, Zebulon, in thy going forth, and Issachar, in thy tents.
19	They shall call the peoples to the mountain; there they shall sacrifice sacrifices of justice, for they shall suck the abundance of the sea, and the bidden things hid in the sand.
20	And to Gad he said, Blessed he enlarging Gad: he dwelt as a lion, and he tore up the arm, also the crown.
21	And he will see the first-fruits to himself, for there the portion of the ruler he covered: and he will mark out the heads of the people; he did the justice of Jehovah, and his judgments with Israel.
22	And to Dan he said, Dan a lion’s whelp: he shall spring forth from Bashan.
23	And to Naphtali he said, Naphtali satisfied with acceptance, and filled with the blessing of Jehovah, he shall possess the sea and the south.
24	And to Asher he said, Asher blessed from sons; he shall be accepted of his brethren, and he dipped his foot in oil.
25	Thy bolt, iron and brass; and as thy days, thy rest.
26	None as the God of Jeshurun, riding the heavens in thy help and in his lifting up the choirs.
27	The God of the beginning testifying, and underneath, the perpetual arms: and he will thrust out the enemy from before thee, and will say, Destroy.
28	And Israel shall dwell confidently alone; the eye of Jacob upon a land of grain and new wine, also his heavens shall drop dew.
29	Happy, thou, Israel: who like thee, a people saved by Jehovah, the shield of thy help, and who the sword of thy lifting up and thine enemies will lie to thee, and thou wilt tread upon their heights.