1	And Moses will call to all Israel, and say, Hear, thou Israel, the laws and the judgments which I speak in your ears this day, and learn them, and watch to do them.
2	Jehovah our God cut out with us a covenant in Horeb.
3	Jehovah cut not out this covenant with our fathers, but with us, we, these here this day, all we living.
4	Face to face Jehovah spake with you in the mount out of the midst of the fire.
5	(I stood between Jehovah and between you in that time to announce to you the word of Jehovah: for ye were afraid on account of the fire and ye went not up into the mount,) saying,
6	I Jehovah thy God who brought thee out of the land of Egypt from the house of servants.
7	There shall not be to thee other gods before me.
8	Thou shalt not make to thee a carved thing, any appearance that is in the heavens from above, and which is in the earth underneath, and that is in the waters under the earth:
9	Thou shalt not worship to them, and thou shalt not serve them; for I Jehovah thy God, a jealous God, striking the iniquity of the fathers upon the sons to the third and the fourth for hating me,
10	And doing mercy to thousands for loving me and for watching my commands.
11	Thou shalt not lift up the name of Jehovah thy God for evil, for Jehovah will not acquit whoever shall lift up his name for evil.
12	Watch the day of the Sabbath to consecrate it, as Jehovah thy God commanded thee.
13	Six days thou shalt work and do all thy work,
14	And the seventh day, the Sabbath to Jehovah thy God: thou shalt not do any work, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy servant, and thy maid, and thine ox, and thine ass, and all thy cattle, and thy stranger who is in thy gates; so that thy servant and thy maid shall rest like thyself.
15	And remember that thou wert a servant in the land of Egypt, and Jehovah thy God brought thee out from there by a strong hand and by an extended arm: for this, Jehovah thy God commanded thee to do the day of the Sabbath.
16	Honor thy father and thy mother, as Jehovah thy God commanded thee, so that thy days shall be prolonged and so that it shall be good to thee upon the land that Jehovah thy God gave to thee,
17	Thou shalt not kill,
18	and thou shalt not commit adultery,
19	and thou shalt not steal.
20	And thou shalt not speak false testimony against thy friend:
21	and thou shalt not desire thy friend’s wife; and thou shalt not long for thy friend’s house, his field, and his servant, and his maid, his ox and his ass, and all that is to thy friend.
22	These words Jehovah spake to all your gathering in the mount, from the midst of the fire, of the cloud, and of the gloom, a great voice; and he added not: and he will write them upon two tables of stone and will give them to me.
23	And it will be as ye are hearing the voice from the midst of the darkness (and the mount burnt with fire), and ye will come near to me all the heads of your tribes, and your old men;
24	And ye will say, Jehovah our God caused us to see his glory and his greatness, and his voice we heard from the midst of the fire: this day we saw that God will speak to man and he lived.
25	And now wherefore shall we die? for this great fire will consume us: if we added to hear the voice of Jehovah our God further, and we died.
26	For who of all flesh that heard the voice of the living God speaking from the midst of the fire like us, and shall live?
27	Come thou near and hear all that Jehovah our God shall say; and thou shalt speak to us all that Jehovah our God will speak to thee: and we heard and we did.
28	And Jehovah will hear the voice of your words in your speaking to me; and Jehovah will say to me, I heard the voice of the words of this people that they spake to thee: they did well all that they spake.
29	Who will give, and were this heart in them, for them to fear me and to watch all my commands all the days, so that it shall be well to them and to their sons forever.
30	Go say to them, Turn back for yourselves to your tents.
31	And thou, stand thou here with me and I will speak to thee all the commands and the laws and the judgments which thou shalt teach them: and they did it in the land I gave to them to possess it.
32	And watch ye to do as Jehovah your God commanded right: ye shall not turn aside to the right and to the left.
33	In all the way that Jehovah your God commanded you, ye shall go, so that ye shall live and it be well to you, and ye prolonged the days upon the land which ye shall possess.