1	Hear, Israel: Thou passest this day over Jordan to go to possess nations great and strong above thee; cities great and fortified to the heavens:
2	A people great and high, sons of Anakims, whom thou knewest, and thou heardest, Who shall stand before the sons of Anak?
3	And know thou this day that Jehovah thy God he is passing over before thee; he is a consuming fire, he will destroy them, and he will humble them before thy face, and drive them out and destroy them quickly, as Jehovah spake to thee.
4	Thou shalt not say in thy heart in Jehovah thy God’s thrusting them out from before thee, saying, For my justice Jehovah brought me forth to possess this land; and for the injustice of these nations Jehovah dispossessed them from before thee.
5	Not for thy justice and for the straightness of thy heart thou goest in to possess this land, but for the injustice of these nations Jehovah thy God dispossesses them from before thee, and order to lift up the word which he sware to thy fathers, to Abraham and to Isaak and to Jacob.
6	And know thou that not for thy justice did Jehovah thy God five to thee this good land to possess it; for thou a people of a hard neck.
7	Remembering, thou shalt not forget that thou didst provoke Jehovah thy God to anger in the desert: from the day thou didst go out from the land of Egypt till your coming to this place, ye were rebelling against Jehovah.
8	And in Horeb ye provoked Jehovah to anger, and Jehovah will be angry with you to destroy you.
9	In my going up to the mount to take the tables of stone, the tables of the covenant which Jehovah made with you, and I shall dwell in the mountain forty days and forty nights; I ate not bread and I drank not water:
10	And Jehovah will give to me two tables of stone written with the finger of God; and upon them according to all the words which Jehovah spake with you in the mountain out of the midst of the fire, in the day of the gathering.
11	And it shall be from the end of forty days and forty nights, Jehovah gave to me the two tables of stone, the tables of the covenant.
12	And Jehovah will say to me, Arise, go from this mountain; for thy people were corrupted which thou broughtest forth from Egypt; they turned aside quickly from the way which thou didst command them; they made to themselves a molten thing.
13	And Jehovah will say to me, saying, I saw this people, and behold, it a people of hard neck:
14	Desist from me and I will destroy them, and I will wipe off their name from under the heavens: and I will make thee into a nation strong and many above them.
15	And I shall turn and come down from the mount, and the mount burnt with fire: and the two tables of the covenant upon my two hands.
16	And I shall see, and behold, ye sinned against Jehovah your God; ye made to you a molten calf; ye turned aside quickly from the way which Jehovah commanded you.
17	And I shall lay hold upon the two tables and I shall cast them from out of my two hands, and shall break them before your eyes.
18	And I shall fall down before Jehovah as at the first; forty days and forty nights I ate not bread and I drank not water on account of all your sins that ye sinned to do evil in the eyes of Jehovah to provoke him.
19	For I was afraid from the face of the anger and emotion with which Jehovah was angry against you to destroy you. And Jehovah will hear to me also in this time.
20	And with Aaron Jehovah was greatly angry to destroy him: and I shall pray also for Aaron in that time.
21	And the sin that ye made, the calf, I took and I shall burn it with fire, and beat it, and grinding small till it was beat small to dust: and I shall cast its dust into the torrent going down from the mount.
22	And in Taberah and in Massah, and in Kibroth Hatavah, ye were provoking Jehovah to anger.
23	And in Jehovah’s sending you from Kadesh-Barnea, saying; Go ye up and possess the land which I gave to you: and ye will rebel against the mouth of Jehovah your God, and ye trusted not to him, and ye heard not to his voice.
24	And ye were rebelling against Jehovah from the day I knew you.
25	And I shall fall down before Jehovah forty days and forty nights, as I fell down; for Jehovah said to destroy you.
26	And I shall pray to Jehovah, and say, Lord Jehovah, thou wilt not destroy thy people and thine inheritance which thou didst redeem in thy greatness, whom thou broughtest out of Egypt with a strong hand.
27	Remember thy servants, for Abraham, for Isaak, and for Jacob, thou wilt not look to the stubbornness of this people, and to its wickedness, and to its sin:
28	Lest they of the land where thou broughtest us from there shall say, For Jehovah was not able to bring them in to the land which he spake to them; and for his hating them he brought them out to destroy them in the desert.
29	And they are thy people and thine inheritance whom thou broughtest out by thy great strength and by thine extended arm.