1	And Jehovah will speak to Moses in the desert of Sinai, in the tent of appointment, in one of the second month, in the second year of their coming out of the land of Egypt, saying,
2	Take up the sum of all the assembly of the sons of Israel, according to their families, according to the house of their fathers, with the number of names, every male according to their head:
3	From the son of twenty years and above, all going forth to war in Israel; ye shall review them according to their armies, thou and Aaron.
4	And with you they shall be a man, a man according to the tribe; a man he the head according to the house of their fathers.
5	And these the names of the men who shall stand with you: for Reuben: Elizur, son of Shedeur.
6	For Simeon: Shelumiel, son of Zurishaddai.
7	For Judah: Nahshon, son of Amminadab.
8	For Issachar: Nethaneel, son of Zuar.
9	For Zebulon: Eliab, son of Helon.
10	For the sons of Joseph: for Ephraim; Elishama, son of Ammihud. For Manasseh: Gamaliel, son of Pedahzur.
11	For Benjamin: Abidan, son of Gideoni.
12	For Dan: Ahiezer, son of Ammishaddai.
13	For Asher: Pagiel, son of Ocran.
14	For Gad: Eliasaph, son of Deuel.
15	For Naphtali: Ahira, son of Enan.
16	These the called of the assembly, chiefs from the tribe of their fathers, they the heads of the thousands of Israel.
17	And Moses will take, and Aaron, these men which were called by names:
18	And they gathered together all the assembly in one of the second month, and they will declare their birth according to their families, according to the the son of twenty years and above, all going forth to war.
19	As Jehovah commanded Moses, and he reviewed them in the desert of Sinai.
20	And the sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel, shall be their generations, according to their families, according to the house of their fathers, according to the number of names, according to their heads, every male from the son of twenty years and above, all going forth to war.
21	Those being reviewed for the tribe of Reuben, six and forty thousand and five hundred.
22	For the sons of Simeon, their generations according to their families, according to the house of their fathers, they being reviewed according to the number of names, according to their heads, every male from the son of twenty years and above, all going forth to war.
23	They being reviewed for the tribe of Simeon, nine and fifty thousand and three hundred.
24	For the sons of Gad, their generations, according to their families, according to the house of their fathers, according to the number of names, from the son of twenty years and above, all going forth to war.
25	They being reviewed for the tribe of Gad, five and forty thousand and six hundred and fifty.
26	And for the sons of Judah, their generations according to their families, according to the house of their fathers, according to the number of names, from the son of twenty years and above, all going forth to war.
27	They being reviewed for the tribe of Judah, four and seventy thousand and six hundred.
28	For the sons of Issachar, their generations according to their families, according to the house of their fathers, according to the number of names, from the son of twenty years and above, all going forth to war.
29	They being reviewed for the tribe of Issachar, four and fifty thousand and four hundred.
30	For the tribe of Zebulon, their generations according to their families, according to the house of their fathers, according to the number of names, from the son of twenty years and above, all going forth to war.
31	They being reviewed for the tribe of Zebulon, seven and fifty thousand and four hundred.
32	For the sons of Joseph, for the sons of Ephraim, their generations according to their families, according to the house of their fathers, according to the number of names, from the son of twenty years and above, all going forth to war.
33	They being reviewed for the tribe of Ephraim, forty thousand and five hundred.
34	For the sons of Manasseh, their generations, according to their families, according to the house of their fathers, according to the number of names, from the son of twenty years and above, all going forth to war.
35	They being reviewed for the tribe of Manasseh, two and thirty thousand and two hundred.
36	For the sons of Benjamin, their generations, according to their families, according to the house of their fathers, according to the number of names, from the son of twenty years and above, all going forth to war.
37	They being reviewed for the tribe of Benjamin, five and thirty thousand and four hundred.
38	For the sons of Dan, their generations, according to their families, according to the house of their fathers, according to the number of names, from the son of twenty years and above, all going forth to war.
39	They being reviewed for the tribe of Dan, two and sixty thousand and seven hundred.
40	And for the tribe of Asher, their generations, according to their families, according to the house of their fathers, according to the number of names, from the son of twenty years and above, all going forth to war.
41	They being reviewed for the tribe of Asher, one and forty thousand and five hundred.
42	The sons of Naphtali, their generations, according to their families, according to the house of their fathers, according to the number of names, from the son of twenty years and above, all going forth to war.
43	They being reviewed for the tribe of Naphtali, three and fifty thousand and four hundred.
44	These, they being reviewed, which Moses reviewed, and Aaron, and the chiefs of Israel, twelve men: one man was for the house of their father.
45	And all the sons of Israel shall be reviewed according to the house of their fathers, from the son of twenty years and above, all going forth to war in Israel.
46	And all being reviewed shall be six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty.
47	And the Levites for the tribe of their fathers were not reviewed in the midst of them.
48	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
49	But the tribe of Levi thou shalt not review, and their head thou shalt not take in the midst of the sons of Israel.
50	And thou, set the Levites over the dwelling of testimony, and over all its vessels, and over all which is to it: they shall lift up the dwelling and all its vessels, and they shall serve it, and they shall encamp round about the dwelling.
51	And in the removing of the dwelling the Levites shall take it down, and in pitching the dwelling, the Levites shall set it up: and the stranger coming near shall die.
52	And the sons of Israel encamped each by his camp, and each by his flag for their warfare.
53	And the Levites shall encamp round about the dwelling of testimony; and there shall not be anger upon the assembly of the sons of Israel: and the Levites shall watch the watch of the dwelling of testimony.
54	And the sons of Israel shall do according to all which Jehovah commanded Moses; so did they.