1	And the people shall be as complainers, and it was evil in the ears of Jehovah; and Jehovah will hear, and his anger will kindle, and the fire of Jehovah will burn among them and will consume in the extremity of the camp.
2	And the people will cry to Moses and Moses will pray to Jehovah, and the fire will subside.
3	And he will call the name of that place Taberah, for the fire of Jehovah burnt among them.
4	And the scraped together which in its midst will long a longing; and the sons of Israel also will turn back and weep, and they will say, Who will feed us with flesh?
5	We remembered the fish which we ate in Egypt gratuitously; the cucumbers and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlics.
6	And now our soul shall be dried up; not any thing but to the manna our eyes.
7	And the manna it as the seed of coriander, and its eye as the eye of bdellium.
8	The people went to and fro, and gathered and ground in the mill, or crushed in the mortar, and boiled in the pot, and made it cakes; and its taste was as the taste of a sweet cake of oil.
9	And in the descending of the dew upon the camp by night the manna descended upon it.
10	And Moses will hear the people weeping to their families, each at the door of his tent: and the wrath of Jehovah was kindled greatly; and it was evil in the eyes of Moses.
11	And Moses will say to Jehovah, For what hast thou done evil to thy servant? and for what did I not find grace in thine eyes, to put the debt of all this people upon me?
12	Did I form all this people? did I beget them? for thou wilt say to me, Lift them up into thy bosom, as a nurse will lift up the sucking child upon the land which thou swarest to their fathers.
13	Whence to me flesh to give to all this people? for they weep upon me, saying, Thou shalt give to us flesh and we shall eat.
14	I shall not be able to lift up alone all this people, for it is heavy for me.
15	And if so thou doest to me, killing, kill me now, if I found grace in thine eyes; and I shall not look upon my evil.
16	And Jehovah will say to Moses, Gather to me seventy men of the old men of Israel, whom thou knewest that they were old men of the people, and their scribes; and take them to the tent of appointment, and they shall stand there with thee.
17	And I came down and I spake with thee there; and I took from the spirit which is upon thee, and I put upon them, and they lifted up with thee in the debt of the people, and thou shalt not lift it up thyself alone.
18	And thou shalt say to the people, Be ye consecrated for the morrow, and ye ate flesh: for ye wept in the ears of Jehovah, saying, Who shall feed us with flesh? for it was good to us in Egypt; and Jehovah gave to you flesh, and ye ate.
19	Not one day shall ye eat, and not two days, and not five days, and not ten days, and not twenty days;
20	Even to a month of days, till when it shall come out from your nostrils, and it shall be to you for loathsomeness, because that ye rejected Jehovah who is in the midst of you, and ye shall weep before him, saying, Wherefore came we out of Egypt?
21	And Moses will say, Six hundred thousand of foot the people which I am in the midst of them: and thou saidst, I will give flesh to them, and they shall eat a month of days.
22	Shall the sheep and the oxen be slaughtered for them and suffice for them? and if he shall gather all the fish of the sea to them, and it suffice for them?
23	And Jehovah will say to Moses, Shall the hand of Jehovah be cut off? Now shalt thou see my word shall be precious to thee or not.
24	And Moses will go forth, and will speak to the people the words of Jehovah; and he will gather the seventy men, of the old men of the people, and he will cause them to stand round about the tent.
25	And Jehovah will come down in the cloud, and will speak to him, and he will take from the spirit which is upon him, and will give upon the seventy men, the old men: and it shall be in the resting of the spirit upon them, and they shall prophesy, and they shall not cease.
26	And two men remained in the camp, the name of the one Eldad, and the name of the second, Medad: and the spirit will encamp upon them; and they among those being written, and they will not go forth to the tent, and they will prophesy in the camp.
27	And a young man will run and announce to Moses, and he will say, Eldad and Medad are prophesying in the camp.
28	And Joshua, son of Nun, serving Moses from his chosen, will answer and say, My lord Moses, restrain them.
29	And Moses will say to him, Thou envying for me; and who will give all the people of Jehovah prophets? when Jehovah will give his spirit upon them.
30	And Moses will take himself into the camp, he and the old men of Israel.
31	And a spirit removed from Jehovah and it will divide out the quails from the sea, and will cast upon the camp, as the way of a day hither, and the way of a day thither, round about the camp, and as two cubits upon the face of the earth.
32	And the people will rise up all that day and all the night, and all the day of the morrow, and will gather the quails: the few gathered ten homers; and they will spread for themselves a spreading round about the camp.
33	And the flesh yet between their teeth, before it shall be withdrawn and the anger of Jehovah was kindled against the people, and Jehovah will smite upon them an exceeding great blow.
34	And he will call the name of that place, The Graves of Longings, for there they buried the people longing.
35	From the Graves of Longings the people removed to the enclosures, and they shall be in the enclosures.