1	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
2	Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, When ye shall come into the land of your dwellings, which I give to you,
3	And ye did a sacrifice to Jehovah, a burnt-offering or a sacrifice to separate a vow, or in willingness, or in your assemblies, to make an odor of sweetness to Jehovah, from the oxen or from the sheep:
4	And he bringing near, brought near his offering to Jehovah, a gift of fine flour, the tenth mingled with the fourth of the bin of oil.
5	And wine for a libation, the fourth of the hin, thou shalt do upon the burnt-offering or to the sacrifice for the one lamb.
6	Or to the ram thou shalt do a gift of fine flour, two tenths mingled with oil, the third of the hin.
7	And wine for a libation the third of the hin, thou shalt bring an odor of sweetness to Jehovah.
8	And when thou shalt do the son of a cow, a burnt-offering or sacrifice to separate a vow, or peace to Jehovah:
9	And he brought upon the son of a cow a gift of fine flour, three tenths mingled with oil, half the bin.
10	And wine thou shalt bring for a libation, half the hin, a sacrifice, an odor of sweetness to Jehovah.
11	Thus shall it be done to the one bullock or to the one ram, or to the sheep with the lambs, or with the goats.
12	According to the number which ye shall do, so shall ye do to the one according to their number.
13	Every native shall do thus with these to bring near a sacrifice, an odor of sweetness to Jehovah.
14	And when a stranger shall sojourn with you, or whoever in the midst of you for your generations, and he did a sacrifice, an odor of sweetness to Jehovah; as ye shall do, so shall he do.
15	One law for you of the assembly, and for the stranger sojourning; a law forever to your generations: as ye, so the stranger shall be before Jehovah.
16	One law and one judgment shall be to you, and to the stranger sojourning with you.
17	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
18	Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, In your going into the land where I bring you there,
19	And it was in your eating from the bread of the land, ye shall lift up a lifting up to Jehovah.
20	The first of your groats, a cake, shall ye lift up a lifting up; as the lifting up of the threshing floor, so shall ye lift it up.
21	From the first of your groats, shall ye give to Jehovah a lifting up, for your generations.
22	And when ye shall err, and shall not do all these commands which Jehovah spake to Moses,
23	All which Jehovah commanded to you by the hand of Moses from the day which Jehovah commanded, and onward to your generations;
24	And it was if from the eyes of the assembly there was done in error, all the assembly did a bullock, the son of a cow, for a burnt-offering, for an odor of sweetness to Jehovah, and its gift and its libation, according to judgment, and one he goat of the goats for sin.
25	And the priest expiated for all the assembly of the sons of Israel, and it was forgiven to them; for it is an error; and they brought their offering a sacrifice to Jehovah, and their sin before Jehovah, for their error.
26	And it was forgiven to all the assembly of the sons of Israel, and to the stranger sojourning in the midst of them, to all the people in error.
27	And if one soul shall sin in error, and he brought a she goat the daughter of a goat, for sin.
28	And the priest expiated for the soul erring, in sinning in error before Jehovah, to expiate for him; and it was forgiven to him.
29	The native among the sons of Israel, and to the stranger sojourning in the midst of them, one law shall be to you, for doing in error.
30	And the soul which shall do with a high hand, from the native, and from the stranger, it reproaches Jehovah, and that soul was cut off from the midst of its people.
31	For it despised the word of Jehovah, and broke his command; being cut off, that soul shall be cut off; its iniquity upon it.
32	And the sons of Israel shall be in the desert, and they shall find a man gathering wood in the day of the Sabbath.
33	And they having found him, will bring him gathering wood to Moses, and to Aaron, and to all the assembly.
34	And they will put him in watch, for it was not specified what shall be done to him.
35	And Jehovah will say to Moses, Dying, the man shall die: all the assembly stoned him with stones without the camp.
36	And all the assembly shall bring him forth without the camp, and they shall stone him with stones, and he shall die; as Jehovah commanded Moses.
37	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
38	Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, They made to them fringes of flowers upon the wings of their garment for their generations; and they gave upon the fringes of the wing a thread of cerulean purple;
39	And it was to you for fringes, and ye saw it, and ye remembered all the commands of Jehovah, and ye did them; and ye shall not seek after your heart, and after your eyes, which ye committed fornication after them.
40	So that ye shall remember, and ye did all my commands, and ye were holy to your God.
41	I am Jehovah your God who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, to be to you for God; I am Jehovah your God.