1	And Jehovah will speak to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
2	This is the law of the precept which to Jehovah commanded, saying, Speak the sons of Israel and they shall take to thee a red, blameless heifer, to which not a blemish in her, and which a yoke was not lifted up upon her.
3	And give her to Eleazar the priest, and he shall bring her forth without the camp, and slaughter her before him.
4	And Eleazar the priest took from her blood with his finger, and sprinkled before the face of the tent of appointment, from her blood seven times.
5	And he burnt the heifer before his eyes; her skin and her flesh and her blood, with her dung, shall he burn.
6	And the priest took cedar wood and hyssop and double scarlet, and cast into the midst of the burning of the heifer.
7	And the priest washed his garments, and bathed his flesh in water, and afterward he shall go into the camp; and the priest was unclean till evening.
8	And he burning her shall wash his garments in water, and bathed his flesh in water, and was unclean till the evening.
9	And a clean man gathered up the ashes of the heifer, and put without the camp in a clean place, and it shall be to the assembly of the sons of Israel for a preservation for a water of uncleanness: it is sin.
10	And he gathering the ashes of the heifer washed his garments, and was unclean till the evening: and it shall be to the sons of Israel, and to the stranger sojourning in the midst of them, for a law forever.
11	He touching upon the dead of any soul of man and he was unclean seven days.
12	He shall purify himself in the third day, and in the seventh day he shall be clean: and if he shall not be purified in the third day, in the seventh day he shall not be clean.
13	All touching upon the dead, upon the soul of man which shall die, and shall not be purified, defiled the dwelling of Jehovah; and that soul was cut off from Israel: for the water of uncleanness was not sprinkled upon him, he shall be unclean; his uncleanness yet upon him.
14	This the law of a man when he shall die in the tent; all going into the tent and all who are in the tent, shall be unclean seven days.
15	And every vessel being open which a cord was not bound upon it, it is unclean.
16	And every one who shall touch upon the face of the field, upon the wounded of the sword, or upon the dead, or upon the bone of man, or upon a grave, shall be unclean seven days.
17	And they took for the unclean from the dust of the burning of sin, and living water was given upon it into a vessel:
18	And a clean man took hyssop and dipped in water and sprinkled upon the tent, and upon all the vessels, and upon the souls which were there, and upon him touching upon a bone, or upon the wounded, or upon the the dead, or upon a grave:
19	And he being clean sprinkled upon the unclean in the third day, and in the seventh day: and he was cleansed in the seventh day, and he washed his garments and bathed in water, and was clean in the evening.
20	And a man who shall be unclean and shall not be purified, and that soul was cut off from the midst of the gathering, for he defiled the holy place of Jehovah: the water of uncleanness was not sprinkled upon him; he is unclean.
21	And it was to them for a law forever, and he sprinkling the water of uncleanness shall wash his garments; and he touching upon the water of uncleanness shall be unclean till the evening.
22	And all which the unclean shall touch upon it, shall be unclean; and the soul touching shall be unclean till the evening.