1	And the sons of Israel will come, all the assembly, to the desert of Zin, in the first month; and the people will dwell in Kadesh; and Miriam will die there and be buried there.
2	And there was not water for the assembly: and they will gather together against Moses and against Aaron.
3	And they will contend with Moses, and will speak, saying, Would that we died in the dying of our brethren before Jehovah!
4	And for what brought ye the gathering of Jehovah into this desert to die there, we and our cattle.
5	And for what brought ye us up out of Egypt to bring us to this evil place? Not a place of seed, and figs, and the vine and the pomegranate; and not water to drink.
6	And Moses will go, and Aaron, from the face of the gathering to the door of the tent of appointment, and they will fall upon their faces: and the glory of Jehovah shall be seen to them.
7	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
8	Take the rod and gather the assembly together, thou and Aaron thy brother, and speak to the rock before their eyes; and it gave water; and brought to them water from the rock, and gave drink to the assembly, and their cattle.
9	And Moses will take the rod from before Jehovah, as he commanded him.
10	And Moses and Aaron will gather together the gathering before the rock, and he will say to them, Hear, now, ye rebellious: from this rock shall we bring forth to you water?
11	And Moses will lift up his hand and will smite the rock with the rod twice, and many waters will come forth, and the assembly will drink and their cattle.
12	And Jehovah will say to Moses, and to Aaron, Because ye believed not in me, to consecrate me before the eyes of the sons of Israel, for this, ye shall not bring in this gathering to the land which I gave to them.
13	These the Waters of Strife, because the sons of Israel strove with Jehovah, and he will be consecrated in them.
14	And Moses will send messengers from Kadesh to the king of Edom, Thus said thy brother Israel, Thou knewest all the distress which found us:
15	And our fathers will go down to Egypt and will dwell in Egypt many days; and the Egyptians will do evil to us and to our fathers.
16	And we shall cry to Jehovah, and he will hear our voice, and he will send a messenger and he will bring us forth out of Egypt: and behold us in Kadesh, a city the end of thy boundary.
17	Now we will pass over in thy land: we will not pass through in the field and in the vineyard, and we will not drink the water of the well: the way of the king we will go; we will not incline to the right or to the left till we shall pass over thy boundary.
18	And Edom will say to him, Thou shalt not pass by me, lest with the sword I shall come out to thy meeting.
19	And the sons of Israel will say to him, By the highway will we come up; and if we shall drink of thy waters, I and my cattle, I gave a price: only not speaking, I will pass through on my feet.
20	And he will say, Thou shalt not pass through. And Edom will come forth to his meeting with a heavy people, and with a strong hand.
21	And Edom will refuse to give to Israel to pass over by his boundary; and Israel will turn away from him.
22	And they will remove from Kadesh, and the sons of Israel, all the assembly will come to Mount Hor.
23	And Jehovah will say to Moses and to Aaron, in mount Hor, upon the boundary of the land of Edom, saying,
24	Aaron shall be gathered to his people; for he shall not come into the land which I gave to the sons of Israel, because that ye resisted my mouth at the Waters of Strife.
25	Take Aaron and Eleazar his son, and bring them up to mount Hor.
26	And strip Aaron of his garments, and put them upon Eleazar his son: and Aaron shall be gathered and die there.
27	And Moses will do as Jehovah commanded: and he will bring him up to mount Hor before the eyes of all the assembly.
28	And Moses will strip Aaron of his garments, and will put them upon Eleazar his son: and Aaron will die there in the head of the mountain: and Moses will come down, and Eleazar, from the mountain.
29	And all the assembly will see that Aaron died, and they will weep for Aaron thirty days, all the house of Israel.