1	And in the seventh month, in one to the month, a holy calling to shall be to you; all work of service ye shall not do: it shall be a day of signal to you.
2	And ye did the burnt-offering for an odor of sweetness to Jehovah; one bullock, the son of a cow, one ram, seven blameless lambs, sons of a year.
3	And their gift fine flour mingled with oil, three tenths for the bullock, two tenths for the ram,
4	And one tenth for the one lamb, for the seven lambs;
5	And one he goat of the goats for sin, to expiate for you;
6	Besides the burnt-offering of the month and its gift, and the burnt-offering of continuance and its gift, and their libation, according to their judgment, for an odor of sweetness, a sacrifice to Jehovah.
7	And in the tenth to this seventh month a holy calling shall be to you: ye afflicted your souls: all work ye shall not do.
8	And bring ye near a burnt-offering to Jehovah, an odor of sweetness: one bullock, son of a cow, one ram, seven lambs, sons of a year; blameless they shall be to you.
9	And their gift fine flour mingled with oil, three tenths for the bullock, two tenths for the one ram,
10	A tenth tenth for the one lamb, the seven lambs:
11	One he goat of the goats for sin, besides the sin of expiations, and the burnt-offering of continuance, and its gift and their libations.
12	And in the fifteenth day to the seventh month, a holy calling shall be to you: all work of service ye shall not do, and keep ye a festival to Jehovah seven days.
13	And ye brought near a burnt-offering, a sacrifice, an odor of sweetness to Jehovah: thirteen bullocks, sons of a cow, two rams, fourteen lambs, sons of a year: blameless shall they be.
14	And their gift fine flour mingled with oil, three tenths for the one bullock, for the thirteen bullocks, two tenths for the one ram, for the two rams,
15	And a tenth tenth for the one lamb, for the fourteen lambs;
16	And one he goat of sin, besides the burnt-offering of continuance, its gift and its libation.
17	And in the second day, twelve bullocks, sons of a cow, two rams, fourteen blameless lambs, sons of a year.
18	And their gift and their libation for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, according to their judgment:
19	And one he goat of the goats for sin: besides the burnt-offering of continuance, and its gift and their libations.
20	And in the third day, eleven bullock; two rams, fourteen blameless lambs, sons of a year.
21	And their gift and their libations for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, according to judgment:
22	And one he goat of the goats for sin; besides the burnt-offering of continuance, and its gift and its libation.
23	And in the fourth day, ten bullocks, two rams, fourteen blameless lambs, sons of a year.
24	Their gift and their libations for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, according to judgment:
25	And one he goat of the goats for sin, besides the burnt-offering of continuance, its gift and its libation.
26	And in the fifth day, nine bullocks, two rams, fourteen blameless lambs, sons of a year:
27	And their gift and their libations for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, according to judgment:
28	And one he goat of sin, besides the burnt-offering of continuance, its gift and its libation.
29	And in the sixth day, eight bullocks, two rams, fourteen blameless lambs, sons of a year:
30	And their gift and their libations for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, according to judgment:
31	And one he goat for sin, besides the burnt-offering of continuance, its gift and its libations.
32	And in the seventh day, seven bullocks, two rams, fourteen blameless lambs, sons of a year:
33	And their gift and their libations for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, according to their judgment:
34	And one he goat of sin, besides the burnt-offering of continuance, its gift and its libation:
35	And in the eighth day, a restraint shall be to you: all work of service ye shall not do,
36	And bring ye near a burnt-offering, a sacrifice, an odor of sweetness to Jehovah: one bullock, one ram, seven blameless lambs, sons of a year:
37	Their gift and their libations for the bullock, for the ram, and for the lambs, according to their number, according to judgment:
38	And one he goat of sin, besides the burnt-offering of continuance, and its gift and its libation.
39	These ye shall do to Jehovah in your appointments, besides your vows and your voluntary gifts, for your burnt-offerings, and for your gifts, and your libations, and for your peace.
40	And Moses will say to the sons of Israel according to all which Jehovah commanded Moses.