1	And Moses will speak to the heads of the tribes to the sons of Israel, saying, This the word which Jehovah commanded.
2	A man when he shall vow a vow to Jehovah, or swear an oath to bind a binding upon his soul, he shall not profane his word; according to all going forth from his mouth he shall do.
3	And a woman when she shall vow a vow to Jehovah, and bind a binding in the house of her father, in her youth;
4	And her father heard her vow and her binding which she bound upon her soul, and her father was silent to her; and all her vows stood, and all the binding which she bound upon her soul shall stand.
5	And if her father refused her in the day of his hearing, all her vows and all her bindings which she bound upon her soul, it shall not stand; and Jehovah will forgive her, for her father refused her.
6	And if being she shall be to a husband, and her vows upon her, or the babbling of her lips which she bound upon her soul:
7	And her husband heard in the day of his hearing, and was silent to her: and her vows stood, and the binding which she bound upon her soul shall stand.
8	And if in the day her husband heard he shall refuse her, and he annulled her vows which were upon her, and the babbling of her lips which she bound upon her soul, and Jehovah will forgive her.
9	And the vow of a widow, and of her driven away, all which she bound upon her soul shall stand upon her.
10	And if in the house of her husband she vowed or bound a binding upon her soul with an oath:
11	And her husband heard and was silent to her, he refused her not: and all her vows shall stand, and all the binding which she bound upon her soul shall stand.
12	And if her husband annulling, shall annul them in the day of his hearing; all the going forth of her lips for her vows and for the binding of her soul, shall not stand: her husband annulled them, and Jehovah will forgive her.
13	Every vow, and every oath of binding to afflict the soul, her husband shall cause it to stand, and her husband shall annul it.
14	And if her husband being silent, shall be silent to her from day to day; and he caused to stand all her vows, or, all her bindings which were upon her: he caused them to stand, for he was silent to her in the day of his hearing.
15	And if annulling, he annulled them after his hearing; and he bore the iniquity.
16	These the laws which Jehovah commanded Moses between a man to his wife, between a father to his daughter, in her youth in her father’s house.