1	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
2	Command the sons of Israel, and say to them, When ye coming into the land of Canaan (this the land which shall fall to you for an inheritance, the land of Canaan with her bounds),
3	And to you was the south side from the desert of Zin upon the hands of Edom, and to you was the south boundary from the extremity of the salt sea eastward.
4	And to you turned the boundary from the south to the ascending of Akrabbim, and it passed over Zin: and its going forth was from the south to Kadesh-Barnea, and it went forth to the Enclosure of the Threshing Floor, and it passed over to Azmon:
5	And the boundary turned from Azmon to the torrent of Egypt, and the goings out were the sea.
6	And the boundary of the sea, and it was to you the great sea; and this shall be the boundary to you, the boundary of the sea.
7	And this shall be to you the north boundary: from the great sea ye shall mark out to you mount Hor.
8	From mount Hor ye shall mark out to you to the going in of Hamath: and the goings out were to Zedad.
9	And the boundary went forth to Ziphron, and the goings out were the Enclosure of Enan: this shall be to you the north boundary.
10	And mark out to you to the east boundary, from the Enclosure of Enan to Shepham.
11	And the boundary went down from Shepham to Riblah, from the east to Ain; and the boundary went down and it struck upon the shoulder of the son of Chinnereth eastward.
12	And the boundary went down to Jordan, and its goings out were to the salt sea. This shall be to you the land according to the boundaries round about.
13	And Moses will command the sons of Israel, saying, This the land which ye shall inherit it by lot, which Jehovah commanded to give to the nine tribes, and the half tribe.
14	For the tribe of the sons of Reuben took according to the house of their fathers, and the tribe of the sons of Gad according to the house of their fathers, and the half tribe of Manasseh took their inheritance.
15	The two tribes and the half tribe took their inheritance from the other side to Jordan of Jericho eastward from the rising.
16	And Jehovah will speak to Moses, saying,
17	These the names of the men which shall cause you to inherit the land: Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun.
18	And one chief, one chief shall ye take from a tribe to cause to inherit the land.
19	And these the names of the men: for the tribe of Judah: Caleb, son of Jephunneh.
20	And for the tribe of the sons of Simeon: Shemuel, son of Ammihud.
21	For the tribe of Benjamin: Elidad, the son of Chislon.
22	And for the tribe of the sons of Dan: chief Bukki, son of Jogli.
23	For the tribe of Joseph, for the tribe of the sons of Manasseh: the chief Hanniel, son of Ephod.
24	And for the tribe of the sons of Ephraim: chief Kemuel, son of Shiphtan.
25	And for the tribe of the sons of Zebulon: Elizaphan, son of Parnach.
26	And for the tribe of the sons of Issachar: chief Paltiel, son of Azzan.
27	And for the tribe of the sons of Asher: chief Ahihud, son of Shelomi.
28	And for the tribe of the sons of Naphtali: chief Pedahel, son of Ammihud.
29	These whom Jehovah commanded to cause the sons of Israel to inherit in the land of Canaan.