1	Now the Philistines were fighting against Israel. And the men of Israel fled before the face of the Philistines, and they fell down slain on mount Gilboa.
2	And the Philistines rushed upon Saul, and upon his sons, and they struck down Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul.
3	And the entire weight of the battle was turned against Saul. And the men who were archers pursued him. And he was severely wounded by the archers.
4	Then Saul said to his armor bearer, “Draw your sword and strike me, otherwise these uncircumcised may come and kill me, mocking me.” And his armor bearer was not willing. For he had been struck with an exceedingly great fear. And so, Saul took his own sword, and he fell upon it.
5	And when his armor bearer had seen this, namely, that Saul had died, he too fell upon his sword, and he died with him.
6	Therefore, Saul died, and his three sons, and his armor bearer, and all his men, on the same day together.
7	Then, seeing that the men of the Israelites had fled, and that Saul had died with his sons, the men of Israel who were across the valley or beyond the Jordan abandoned their cities, and they fled. And the Philistines went and lived there.
8	Then, when the next day arrived, the Philistines came, so that they might despoil the slain. And they found Saul and his three sons lying on mount Gilboa.
9	And they cut off the head of Saul. And they despoiled him of the armor, and they sent it into the land of the Philistines all around, so that it might be announced in the temples of the idols and among their people.
10	And they placed his armor in the temple of Ashtaroth. But his body they suspended on the wall of Bethshan.
11	And when the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead had heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul,
12	all the most valiant men rose up, and they walked all night, and they took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Bethshan. And they went to Jabesh Gilead, and they burned them there.
13	And they took their bones, and they buried them in the forest of Jabesh. And they fasted for seven days.