1	Therefore I, the imprisoned in the Lord, beseech you to walk Worthy of the calling which ye were called,
2	With all lowliness and meekness, with longsuffering, bearing one another in love;
3	Striving earnestly to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
4	One body, and one Spirit, as also ye were called in one hope of your calling;
5	One Lord, one faith, one immersion,
6	One God and Father of all, who over all, and through all, and in you all.
7	And to each one of us was grace given according to the measure of the gift of Christ.
8	Wherefore he says, Having ascended into height, he made captivity captive, and gave gifts to men.
9	(And so having ascended, what is it except that he also descended first into the lower parts of the earth?
10	He having descended is the same having ascended above all the heavens, that he might fill up all things.)
11	And truly he gave the sent; and the prophets; and the bearers of good tidings; and the shepherds, and the teachers;
12	For the adjusting of the holy, for the work of the service, for the building up of the body of Christ:
13	Until we all arrive to the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to the perfect man, to the measure of age of the filling up of Christ.
14	That we be no more babes, tossed about, and carried around by every wind of doctrine, in the playing at dice of men, in craft, with the artifice of deceit;
15	And speaking the truth in love, let us grow up into him in all things, who is the head, Christ:
16	From whom all the body fitted together and joined together by every touch of the expenditure, according to the energy in measure of one of each part, makes the increase of the body to the building up of itself in love.
17	Therefore this I say, and testify in the Lord, that ye no more walk as also the rest of the nations, in the vanity of their mind,
18	Being darkened in understanding, alienated from the life of God by ignorance being in them, by the hardness of their heart;
19	Who no longer having had feeling delivered themselves to licentiousness, to the work of all uncleanness in overreaching.
20	And ye have not so learned Christ;
21	If ye heard him, and were taught in him, as is the truth in Jesus:
22	For you to put away according to the former mode of life the old man, corrupted according to the eager desires of deceit;
23	And to be renewed in the spirit of your mind;
24	And to put on the new man, created according to God in justice and sanctity of truth.
25	Wherefore falsehood ye having put away, speak the truth each with his neighbor: for ye are members one of another.
26	Be ye angry, and sin not: let not the sun go down upon your fit of anger:
27	Neither give place to the accuser.
28	He stealing let him steal no more: and rather let him be wearied from fatigue, working good with the hands, that he have to impart to him having need.
29	Let not any foul word go out of your mouth, but if any good to the building of necessity, that it might give grace to them hearing.
30	And grieve ye not the Holy Spirit of God in which ye were sealed to the day of redemption.
31	Let all harshness, and wrath, and anger, and clamor, and slander, be put away from you, with all badness:
32	And be ye kind one to another, having good bowels, favoring each other, as also God in Christ Jesus favored you.