1	Be ye therefore imitators of God, as dearly beloved children;
2	And walk ye in love, as also Christ loved us, and gave himself for us a gift and sacrifice to God for a smell of sweet odor.
3	And fornication, and all uncleanness, or overreaching, let it not be named with you, as becomes the holy;
4	And obscenity, and silly discourse, or wit, which things concern not; but rather thankfulness.
5	For this ye are knowing, that every fornicator, or unclean, or covetous person, who is an idolater, has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
6	Let none lead you astray with vain words: for by these things comes the anger of God upon the sons of disobedience.
7	Be ye not therefore partakers with them.
8	For ye were then darkness, and now light in the Lord: walk ye as children of light:
9	(For the fruit of the Spirit in all goodness and justice and truth;)
10	Trying what is pleasing to the Lord.
11	And participate not with the unfruitful works of darkness, and rather also confute.
12	For the things done secretly by them it is also shameful to speak.
13	And all things refuted, by light are made manifest: for everything made manifest is light.
14	Wherefore he says, Awake, who sleeping, and arise from the dead, and Christ will enlighten thee.
15	See therefore how ye walk accurately, not as unwise, but as wise,
16	Making purchase of time, for the days are evil.
17	For this be not foolish, but understanding what the will of the Lord.
18	And be not drunk with wine, in which is debauchery; but be filled with the Spirit;
19	Speaking to yourselves on harps, and songs, and spiritual odes, singing and playing on the harp in your heart to the Lord;
20	Giving thanks always for all things, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to God and the Father;
21	Yielding obedience to one another in the fear of God.
22	Women, yield ye obedience to your own husbands, as to the Lord.
23	For the husband is the head of the wife, as also Christ the head of the church: and he is the saviour of the body.
24	But as the church is subjected to Christ, so also wives to their own husbands in everything.
25	Husbands, love your own wives, as also Christ loved the church, and delivered himself up for it;
26	That he might consecrate it, having cleansed by the washing of water in the word,
27	That he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing: but that it be holy and blameless.
28	So ought men to love their own wives as their own bodies. He loving his wife, loves himself.
29	For none at any time hates his own flesh; but brings it up and cherishes it, as also the Lord the church:
30	For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones.
31	For this a man shall leave his father and mother, and be joined to his wife, and they two shall be one flesh.
32	This is a great mystery: but I speak to Christ and to the church.
33	But ye also altogether, let each so love his own wife as himself: and the wife that she fear her husband.