1	And it will be when Jabin, king of Hazor, heard, and he will send to Jobab, king of Madon, and to the king of Shimron, and to the king of Achshaph,
2	And to the kings that were from the north upon the mountain, and in the desert south of Cinneroth, and in the valley, and in the height of Dor from the sea,
3	The Canaanite from the sun-rising and from the sea, and the Amorite and the Hittite and the Perizzite, and the Jebusite in the mountain, and the Hivite under Hermon in the land of Mizpeh.
4	And they will come forth, they, and their camps with them, many people, as the sand upon the lip of the sea for multitude, and horse and chariot exceeding many.
5	And all these kings will meet by appointment, and they will come and will encamp together at the water of Merom, to war with Israel.
6	And Jehovah will say to Joshua, Thou shalt not be afraid of their face: for to-morrow about this time I gave them all wounded before Israel: thou shalt hamstring their horses and their chariots thou shalt burn in fire.
7	And Joshua will come, and all the people of war with him, upon them by the water of Merom suddenly, and they will fall upon them.
8	And Jehovah will give them into the hand of Israel, and they will smite them, and they will pursue them, even to great Zidon, and even to Misrephoth-Maim, and even to the valley of Mizpeh from the sunrising; and he will smite them till none was left to them escaping.
9	And Joshua will do to them as Jehovah said to him: he hamstrung their horses, and burnt their chariots in fire.
10	And Joshua will turn back in that time and he will take Hazor, and her king he smote with the sword: and Hazor before them it is the head of all these kingdoms.
11	And they will smite every soul which is in it with the mouth of the sword, exterminating: and no breath was left: and he burnt Hazor in fire.
12	And all the cities of these kings and all their kingdoms Joshua took, and he will smite them with the mouth of the sword, exterminating them, as Moses the servant of Jehovah commanded.
13	Only all the cities standing upon their heap, Israel burnt them not, except Hazor only Joshua burnt.
14	And all the spoil of these cities and the cattle, the sons of Israel plundered for themselves; only every man they smote with the mouth of the sword, till they destroyed them; not any breath was left.
15	As Jehovah commanded Moses his servant, so Moses commanded Joshua, and so Joshua did: he turned not aside a word from all which Jehovah commanded Moses.
16	And Joshua will take all this land, the mountain and all the south, and all the land of Goshen, and the plain, and the desert region and the mountain of Israel, and its plain;
17	From the smooth mountain going up to Seir, and even to the lord of Gad in the plains of Lebanon under mount Hermon: and all their kings he took, and he will smite them and kill them.
18	Many days Joshua made war with all these kings.
19	There was not a city that made peace to the sons of Israel, only the Hivites dwelling in Gibeon; they took all in war.
20	For from Jehovah it was to strengthen their heart to meet Israel in war in order to destroy them; no favor to be to them, but to destroy them as Jehovah commanded Moses.
21	And Joshua will go in that time and will cut off the Anakims from the mountain, from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, and from every mountain of Judah, and from all the mountains of Israel, with their cities Joshua exterminated them.
22	An Anakim was not left in the land of the sons of Israel: only in Gaza, in Gath, and in Ashdod, they were left.
23	And Joshua will take all the land which Jehovah spake to Moses, and Joshua will give it for an inheritance to Israel according to their portion to their tribes. And the land rested from war.