1	And Joshua an old man going in days; and Jehovah will say to him, Thou wert old, going in days, and the land being left very great to possess it.
2	This the land being left: all the circuit of Philisteim, and all Geshuri,
3	From Sihor, which is upon the face of Egypt, even to the bound of Ekron to the north, it will be reckoned to the Canaanite; five lords of Philisteim; the Gazathites, and the Ashdothites, the Eshkalonites, the Gittites, and the Ekronites, and the Avites:
4	From the south all the land of the Canaanites, and Mearah which is to the Sidonians, even to Aphek, even to the bound of the Amorite:
5	And the land of the Giblites and all Lebanon from the sunrising from lord Gad under mount Hermon, even to the entrance of Hamath.
6	All inhabiting the mountains from Lebanon to Misrephoth-Maim, all the Sidonians, I will drive them out from before the sons of Israel: only separate it to Israel in inheritance as I commanded thee.
7	And now divide this land in inheritance to the nine tribes and the half tribe of Manasseh,
8	With him the Reubenites and the Gadites took their inheritance which Moses gave to them on the other side of Jordan from the sunrising, as Moses the servant of Jehovah gave to them:
9	From Aroer that is upon the lip of the torrent Arnon, and the city which is in the midst of the torrent, and all the plain of Medeba, even to Dibon;
10	And all the cities of Sihon, king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, even to the bound of the sons of Ammon;
11	And Gilead and the bound of the Geshurites and the Maachathites, and all mount Hermon, and all Bashan even to Salcah;
12	All the kingdom of Og in Bashan, who reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edrei, he was left of the remnant of the Rephaims. And Moses smote them and drove them out.
13	And the sons of Israel drove not out the Geshurites and the Maachathites: and the Geshurite and the Maachathite dwelt in the midst of Israel even to this day.
14	Only to the tribe of Levi he gave not inheritance, the sacrifices of Jehovah the God of Israel it is his inheritance, as he spake to him.
15	And Moses will give to the tribe of the sons of Reuben according to their families.
16	And the boundary to them will be from Aroer which is upon the lip of the torrent Arnon, and the city which is in the midst of the torrent, and all the plain upon Medeba:
17	Heshbon and all her cities which are in the plain; Dibon and Bamoth-Baal, and the house of the lord of the fortress,
18	And Jahaza and Kedemoth and Mephaath,
19	And Kirjathaim and Libnah, and Zarath-Shahar in the mountain of the valley,
20	And the house of Peor, and the ravines of Pisgah, and the house of Jeshimoth,
21	And all the cities of the plain, and all the kingdom of Sihon, king of the Amorites who reigned in Heshbon, whom Moses smote him with the chiefs of Midian, Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur and Reba, princes of Sihon, dwelling in the land.
22	And Balaam son of Beor, divining, the sons of Israel slew with the sword to those being wounded by them.
23	And the bound of the sons of Reuben shall be Jordan and the boundary. This the inheritance of the sons of Reuben according to their families, their cities and their enclosures.
24	And Moses will give to the tribe of Gad, to the sons of Gad according to their families.
25	And their bound shall be to them, Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead, and half the land of the sons of Ammon, even to Aroer, which is upon the face of Rabbah;
26	And from Heshbon even to Ramath-Mizpeh, and Betonim; and from the two camps even to the bound to Debir;
27	And in the valley The House of Height and the House of Sweet Water, and Succoth and Zephon, the remnant of the kingdom of Sihon king of Heshbon, Jordan and the boundary, even to the end of the sea of Cinneroth beyond Jordan from the sunrising.
28	This the inheritance of the sons of Gad according to their families their cities and their enclosures.
29	And Moses will give to the half of the tribe of Manasseh; and it shall be to half of the tribe of the sons of Manasseh, according to their families.
30	And their bound shall be from the two camps, all Bashan, all the kingdom of Og, king of Bashan, and all the towns of Jair which are in Bashan, sixty cities.
31	And half Gilead, and Ashtaroth and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og, in Bashan, to the sons of Machir, son of Manasseh, to half the sons of Machir according to their families.
32	These which Moses caused to inherit in the sterile regions of Moab from beyond Jordan of Jericho from the sunrising.
33	And to the tribe of Levi Moses gave not an inheritance: Jehovah the God of Israel, he their inheritance as he spake to them.