1	And these what the sons of Israel inherited in the land of Canaan which Eleazar the priest caused them to inherit, and Joshua son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers of the tribes to the sons of Israel.
2	By lot their inheritance as Jehovah commanded by the hand of Moses, for the nine tribes and the half tribe.
3	For Moses gave the inheritance of the two tribes and the half tribe from beyond Jordan: and to the Levites he gave not an inheritance in the midst of them.
4	For the sons of Joseph shall be two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim: and they gave not a portion to the Levites in the land except cities to dwell in and their pastures for their cattle, and for their possession.
5	As Jehovah commanded Moses, so did the sons of Israel, and they divided the land.
6	And the sons of Judah will come near to Joshua in Gilgal: and Caleb, son of Jephunneh will say to him, Thou knewest the word which Jehovah spake to Moses the man of God on account of me and on account of thee in Kadesh-Barnea.
7	The son of forty years was I in Moses the servant of Jehovah sending me from Kadesh-Barnea to spy the land; and I will turn back word to him as with my heart.
8	And my brethren who went up with me caused the heart of the people to melt: and I filled up after Jehovah my God.
9	And Moses will sware in that day, saying, Shall not the land which thy foot trod upon it be to thee for inheritance, and to thy sons even to forever? for thou didst fill up after Jehovah my God.
10	And now, behold, Jehovah preserved me alive as he spake this forty and five years, from the time Jehovah spake this word to Moses, when Israel went in the desert: and now, behold me this day the son of five and eighty years.
11	Yet I this day strong as in the day Moses sent me; as my strength then and so my strength now, for war, to go out and to come in.
12	And now thou shalt give to me this mountain which Jehovah spake in that day; for thou heardest in that day that the Anakims were there, and the cities great being fortified: if Jehovah be with me, and I drove them out, as Jehovah spake.
13	And Joshua will bless him and will give Hebron to Caleb, son of Jephunneh, for inheritance.
14	For this Hebron was to Caleb son of Jephunneh the Kenizite, for inheritance even to this day, because that he filled up after Jehovah the God of Israel.
15	And the name of Hebron before, the city of Arba; he the great man among the Anakims And the land rested from war.