1	And the heads of the fathers of the Levites will come near to the Eleazar the priest, and to Joshua son of Nun, and to the heads of the fathers of the tribes to the sons of Israel:
2	And they will speak to them in Shiloh in the land of Canaan, saying, Jehovah commanded by the hand of Moses to give to us cities to dwell in, and their pastures for our cattle.
3	And the sons of Israel will give to the Levites out of their inheritance at the mouth of Jehovah these cities and their areas.
4	And the lot came forth to the families of the Kohathites: and it will be to the sons of Aaron the priest from the Levites out of the tribe of Judah, and out of the tribe of Simeon, and from the tribe of Benjamin, by lot, thirteen cities.
5	And to the sons of Kohath, those remaining from the families of the tribe of Ephraim, and from the tribe of Gad, and from half the tribe of Manasseh, by lot, ten cities.
6	And to the sons of Gershon from the families of the tribe of Issachar, and from the tribe of Asher, and from the tribe of Naphtali, and from the half tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, by lot, thirteen cities.
7	To the sons of Merari according to their families, from the tribe of Reuben, and from the tribe of Gad, and from the tribe of Zebulon, twelve cities.
8	And the sons of Israel will give to the Levites these cities and their areas, as Jehovah commanded by the hand of Moses, by lot.
9	And they will give from the tribe of the sons of Judah and from the tribe of the sons of Simeon, these cities which he will call them by name,
10	And it will be to the sons of Aaron from the families of the Kohathites, from the sons of Levi: for to them was the first lot.
11	And they will give to them the fourth city, the father of Anak (it is Hebron) in mount Judah, and the area round about it.
12	And the field of the city and its enclosure they gave to Caleb, son of Jephunneh, for his possession.
13	And to the sons of Aaron the priest they gave the city of refuge of the slayer, Hebron and its areas, and Libnah and her areas,
14	And Jattir and her area, and Eshtemoa and her area,
15	And Holon and her area, and Debir and her area,
16	And Ain and her area, and Juttah and her area, and the House of the Sun and her area: nine cities from these two tribes.
17	And from the tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon and her area, and Geba and her area,
18	Anathoth and her area, and Almon and her area: four cities.
19	All the cities of the sons of Aaron the priests, thirteen cities and their areas.
20	And to the families of the sons of Kohath, the Levites remaining from the sons of Kohath, and there will be the cities of their lot from the tribe of Ephraim.
21	And they will give to them the city of refuge of the slayer, Shechem and her area in mount Ephraim, and Gezer and her area,
22	And Kibzaim and her area, and the House of the Hollow and her area: four cities.
23	And from the tribe of Dan, Eltekeh and her area, and Gibbethon and her area,
24	Ailon and her area, and the Press of the Pomegranate and her area: four cities.
25	And from half the tribe of Manasseh, Tanach and her area, and the Press of the Pomegranate and her area: two cities.
26	All the cities, ten, and their areas, to the families of the sons of Kohath, those remaining.
27	And to the sons of Gershon from the families of the Levites, from half the tribe of Manasseh, the city of refuge of the slayer, Golan in Bashan and her area, and Beeshterah and her area: two cities.
28	And from the tribe of Issachar, Kishon and her area, Daberah and her area,
29	And Jarmuth and her area, and the Fountain of Gardens and her area: four cities.
30	And from the tribe of Asher, Mishal and her area, and Abdon and her area,
31	Helkath and her area, and Rehob and her area: four cities.
32	And from the tribe of Naphtali, the city of refuge of the slayer, Kadesh in Galilee and her area; Hamath-Dor and her area, and Kartan and her area: three cities.
33	All the cities of the Gershonites according to their families, thirteen cities and their areas.
34	And to the families of the sons of Merari, the Levites remaining, from the tribe of Zebulon, Jokneam and her area, and Kartah and her area,
35	Dimnah and her area, Nahalal and her area: four cities.
36
37
38	And from the tribe of Gad, the city of refuge of the slayer, Ramath in Gilead and her area; and Mahanaim and her area,
39	And Heshbon and her area, and Jazer and her area: all, four cities.
40	All the cities to the sons of Merari according to their families, those remaining from the families of the Levites, it shall be their lot twelve cities.
41	All the cities of the Levites in the midst of the possession of the sons of Israel, forty and eight cities and their areas.
42	These cities will be city, city, and her areas round about it. Thus to all these cities.
43	And Jehovah will give to Israel all the land which he sware to give to their fathers: and they will inherit it and dwell in it.
44	And Jehovah will cause rest to them from round about, according to all which he sware to their fathers: and there stood not a man before them from all their enemies; all their enemies Jehovah gave into their hand.
45	And there fell not a word from any good word which Jehovah spake to the house of Israel; all came.