1	And it will be from many days after that Jehovah caused Israel to rest from all their enemies round about, Joshua was old, gone in days.
2	And Joshua will call to all Israel, to his old men and to his heads and to his judges and to his scribes, and he will say to them, I have become old; I came into days:
3	And ye saw all which Jehovah your God did to all these nations from your face; for Jehovah your God fought for you.
4	See, I cast to you in lot these nations having been left in inheritance to your tribes from Jordan, and all the nations which I cut off, and the great, sea, from the going down of the sun.
5	And Jehovah your God he shall thrust them away from your face and drive them out from before you; and ye possessed their land, as Jehovah your God spake to you.
6	And be strong greatly to watch and to do all written in the book of the law of Moses, so as not to turn away from it to the right or to the left;
7	So as not to come among these nations, these being left with you; and ye shall not make mention of the name of their gods, and ye shall not swear, and ye shall not serve them, and ye shall not worship to them:
8	But ye shall cleave to Jehovah your God, as ye did even to this day.
9	And Jehovah will drive out from your face great nations and strong: and you, a man stood not before you even to this day.
10	One man from you shall pursue a thousand: for Jehovah your God he fought for you as he spake to you.
11	And watch greatly for your souls, to love Jehovah your God.
12	For if turning back, ye shall turn back and cleave to the remainder of these nations, these being left with you, and marry with them, and go in to them, and they in to you,
13	Knowing, ye shall know that Jehovah your God will not add to drive out these nations from before you: and they, were to you for a snare and for a noose, and for a scourge in your sides, and for thorns in your eyes, till your destruction from this good land which Jehovah your God gave to you.
14	And behold, I go this day in the way of all the earth; and ye knew in all your heart and in all your soul that not one word fell from all the good words which Jehovah your God spake concerning you; all came to you; not one word fell from it.
15	And it was as every good word came upon you which Jehovah your God spake to you, so Jehovah will bring upon you every evil word till his destroying you from off this good land which Jehovah your God gave to you.
16	In your passing by the covenant of Jehovah your God, which he commanded you, and ye went and served other gods and worshipped to them; and the anger of Jehovah kindled against you, and ye perished quickly from off the good land which he gave to you.