1	And Joshua will rise early in the morning; and they will remove from Shittim and they will come even to Jordan, he and all the sons of Israel, and they will pass the night there before they will pass over.
2	And it will be from the end of three days and the scribes will pass through in the midst of the camp.
3	And they will command the people, saying, When ye see the ark of the covenant of Jehovah your God, and the priests the Levites lifting it up, and ye shall remove from your place and go after it.
4	But it shall be far off between you and between it, about two thousand cubits by measure: ye shall not draw near to it so that ye shall know the way which ye shall go in it; for ye passed not through the way from yesterday the third day.
5	And Joshua will say to the people, Consecrate yourselves, for to-morrow Jehovah will do wonderful things in the midst of you.
6	And Joshua will say to the priests, saying, Lift up the ark of the covenant and pass through before the people. And they will lift up the ark of the covenant and will go before the people.
7	And Jehovah will say to Joshua, This day I will begin to make thee great in the eyes of all Israel, that they shall know that as I was with Moses I will be with thee.
8	And thou shalt command the priests lifting up the ark of the covenant, saying, When ye come to the extremity of the water of Jordan ye shall stand in Jordan.
9	And Joshua will say to the sons of Israel, Come near here and hear the words of Jehovah your God.
10	And Joshua will say, By this ye shall know that the living God is in the midst of you; and destroying, he will destroy from your face the Canaanite and the Hittite and the Hivite and the Perizzite and the Girgashite and the Amorite and the Jebusite.
11	Behold, the ark of the covenant of the Lord of all the earth passing through before you into Jordan.
12	And now take to you twelve men from the tribes of Israel, one man, one man to a tribe.
13	And it was as the soles of the feet of the priests lifting up the ark of Jehovah, the Lord of all the earth, rested in the water of Jordan, the water of Jordan shall be cut off from the waters coming down from above; and they shall stand one heap.
14	And it shall be in the people’s removing from their tents to pass through Jordan, and the priests lifting up the ark of the covenant before the people;
15	And as they lifting up the ark come to Jordan, and the feet of the priests lifting up the ark were dipped in the extremity of the waters (and Jordan was filled up to all its banks all the days of harvest,)
16	And the waters coming down from above will stand, they rose up one heap very far off in Adam, the city which is by the side of Zaretan; and coming down upon the sea of the desert, the salt sea, they ceased, they were cut off: and the people passed through over against Jericho.
17	And the priests lifting up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah will stand firm upon the dry land that in the midst of Jordan, and all Israel passing over upon the dry till all the peoples finished to pass over Jordan.