1	And Jericho was shut up; and being shut up from before the sons of Israel, none will come out and none came in.
2	And Jehovah will say to Joshua, See, I gave into thy hand Jericho and her king, and the mighty ones of strength.
3	And encompass the city all ye men of war, and surround the city one time: so shalt thou do six days.
4	And seven priests shall lift up seven trumpets of alarms before the ark: and in the seventh day ye shall encompass the city seven times, and the priests shall clang the trumpets.
5	And it was in prolonging upon the horn of the jubilee in your hearing, the voice of the trumpet, and all the people shall shout a great shout: and the walls of the city shall fall under it, and the people went up each before him.
6	And Joshua son of Nun will call to the priests and say to them, Lift up the ark of the covenant, and seven priests shall lift up seven trumpets of signals before the ark of Jehovah.
7	And they will say to the people, Pass through and surround the city, and he being armed shall pass by before the ark of Jehovah.
8	And it will be as Joshua said to the people, and the seven priests lifting up the seven trumpets of alarms before Jehovah, passed by and clanged upon the trumpets: and the ark of the covenant of Jehovah went after them.
9	And he being armed, went before the priests that clanged with the trumpets, and the gathering went after the ark, going and clanging with the trumpets.
10	And Joshua commanded the people, saying, Ye shall not shout, and ye shall not cause your voice to be heard, and a word shall not go forth out of your mouth till the day I said to you, Shout, and shout ye.
11	And the ark of Jehovah will encompass the city, surrounding one time: and they will come into the camp and will pass the night in the camp.
12	And Joshua will rise early in the morning, and the priests will lift up the ark of Jehovah.
13	And seven priests lifting up seven trumpets of alarms before the ark of Jehovah went on going, and they clanged with the trumpets, and he being armed went before them; and the gathering went after the ark of Jehovah, going and clanging with the trumpets.
14	And they will surround the city in the second day one time, and they will turn back to the camp. So they did six days.
15	And it will be in the seventh day, and they will rise early in the ascending of the dawn, and they will encompass the city according to this judgment seven times; only in that day they encompassed the city seven times.
16	And it will be in the seventh time the priests clanged with the trumpets and Joshua will say to the people, Shout; for Jehovah gave to you the city.
17	And the city was devoted, it, and all which is in it, to Jehovah: only Rehab the harlot shall live; she and all which with her in the house, because she hid the messengers which we sent.
18	And ye, watch ye from the devoted thing lest ye shall be devoted, and ye take from the devoted thing and ye set the camp of Israel to be devoted, and ye troubled it.
19	And all the silver and gold and vessels of brass and iron, it holy to Jehovah: it shall be brought to the treasury of Jehovah.
20	And the people will shout and clang with the trumpets: and it will be as the people heard the voice of the trumpet, and the people will shout a great shout, and the wall will fall under it, and the people will go up to the city, each before him, and they will take the city.
21	And they will devote all which in the city, from man and even to woman, and from the youth even to the old man, and ox and sheep and ass, to the mouth of the sword.
22	And to the two men spying the land Joshua said, Go in to the house of the woman, the harlot, and bring forth from thence the woman and all which is to her, as ye sware to her.
23	And the young men spying will go in and bring forth Rehab, and her father and her mother and her brethren, and all which is to her; and all her families they will bring forth, and they will leave them without the camp of Israel.
24	And they burnt the city in fire and all which is in it: only the silver and the gold and the vessels of brass and iron they gave to the treasury of the house of Jehovah.
25	And Rahab the harlot, and the house of her father and all which is to her, Joshua preserved alive; and she will dwell in the midst of Israel till this day, because she hid the messengers which Joshua sent out to spy Jericho.
26	And Joshua will swear in that time, saying, Cursed the man before Jehovah who shall rise up and build this city Jericho: in his first-born he shall lay its foundation and in his younger he shall set up its doors.
27	And Jehovah will be with Joshua; and his fame will be in all the land.