1	You should not rebuke an old man, but rather plead with him, as if he were your father; with young men, like brothers;
2	with old women, like mothers; with young women, in all chastity, like sisters.
3	Honor those widows who are true widows.
4	But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let her first learn to manage her own household, and to fulfill, in turn, her own obligation to her parents; for this is acceptable before God.
5	But she who is truly a widow and is destitute, let her hope in God, and let her be urgent in supplications and prayers, night and day.
6	For she who is living in pleasures is dead, while living.
7	And give instruction in this, so that they may be beyond reproach.
8	But if anyone has no concern for his own, and especially for those of his own household, he has denied the faith, and he is worse than an unbeliever.
9	Let a widow be chosen who is no less than sixty years of age, who was the wife of one husband,
10	who has testimony of her good works: whether she has educated children, or has provided hospitality, or has washed the feet of the saints, or has ministered to those suffering tribulation, or has pursued any kind of good work.
11	But avoid the younger widows. For once they have flourished in Christ, they will want to marry,
12	resulting in damnation, because they have disregarded the primacy of faith.
13	And being at the same time also idle, they learn to go from house to house, being not only idle, but also talkative and curious, speaking of things which do not concern them.
14	Therefore, I want the younger women to marry, to procreate children, to be mothers of families, to provide no ready opportunity for the adversary to speak evil.
15	For certain ones have already been turned back to Satan.
16	If any among the faithful have widows, let him minister to them and not burden the Church, so that there may be enough for those who are true widows.
17	Let priests who lead well be held worthy of twice the honor, especially those who labor in the Word and in doctrine.
18	For Scripture says: “You shall not muzzle an ox as it is treading out the grain,” and, “The worker is worthy of his pay.”
19	Do not be willing to accept an accusation against a priest, except under two or three witnesses.
20	Reprove sinners in the sight of everyone, so that the others may have fear.
21	I testify before God and Christ Jesus and the elect Angels, that you should observe these things without prejudgment, doing nothing which shows favoritism to either side.
22	You should not be quick to impose hands on anyone, nor should you take part in the sins of outsiders. Keep yourself chaste.
23	Do not continue to drink only water, but make use of a little wine, for the sake of your stomach and your frequent infirmities.
24	The sins of some men have been made manifest, preceding them to judgment, but those of others are manifested later.
25	Similarly, too, good deeds have been made manifest, but even when they are not, they cannot remain hidden.