1	Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons.
2	Grace and peace to you, from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
3	I give thanks to my God, with every remembrance of you,
4	always, in all my prayers, making supplication for all of you with joy,
5	because of your communion in the Gospel of Christ, from the first day even until now.
6	I am confident of this very thing: that he who has begun this good work in you will perfect it, unto the day of Christ Jesus.
7	So then, it is right for me to feel this way about all of you, because I hold you in my heart, and because, in my chains and in the defense and confirmation of the Gospel, you all are partakers of my joy.
8	For God is my witness how, within the heart of Jesus Christ, I long for all of you.
9	And this I pray: that your charity may abound more and more, with knowledge and with all understanding,
10	so that you may be confirmed in what is better, in order that you may be sincere and without offense on the day of Christ:
11	filled with the fruit of justice, through Jesus Christ, in the glory and praise of God.
12	Now, brothers, I want you to know that the things concerning me happened for the advancement of the Gospel,
13	in such a way that my chains have become manifest in Christ in every place of judgment and in all other such places.
14	And many from among the brothers in the Lord, becoming confident through my chains, are now much bolder in speaking the Word of God without fear.
15	Certainly, some do so even because of envy and contention; and others, too, do so because of a good will to preach Christ.
16	Some act out of charity, knowing that I have been appointed for the defense of the Gospel.
17	But others, out of contention, announce Christ insincerely, claiming that their difficulties lift them up to my chains.
18	But what does it matter? As long as, by every means, whether under pretext or in truthfulness, Christ is announced. And about this, I rejoice, and moreover, I will continue to rejoice.
19	For I know that this will bring me to salvation, through your prayers and under the ministration of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
20	by means of my own expectation and hope. For in nothing shall I be confounded. Instead, with all confidence, now just as always, Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether by life or by death.
21	For to me, to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
22	And while I live in the flesh, for me, there is the fruit of works. But I do not know which I would choose.
23	For I am constrained between the two: having a desire to be dissolved and to be with Christ, which is the far better thing,
24	but then to remain in the flesh is necessary for your sake.
25	And having this confidence, I know that I shall remain and that I shall continue to remain with all of you, for your advancement and for your joy in the faith,
26	so that your rejoicing may abound in Christ Jesus for me, through my return to you again.
27	Only let your behavior be worthy of the Gospel of Christ, so that, whether I return and see you, or whether, being absent, I hear about you, still you may stand firm with one spirit, with one mind, laboring together for the faith of the Gospel.
28	And in nothing be terrified by the adversaries. For what is to them is an occasion of perdition, is to you an occasion of salvation, and this is from God.
29	For this has been given to you on behalf of Christ, not only so that you may believe in him, but even so that you may suffer with him,
30	engaging in the same struggle, of a kind which you also have seen in me, and which you now have heard from me.