1	Let not your heart be troubled: you believe in God, believe also in me.
2	In my Father’s house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.
3	And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you to myself; that where I am, there you may be also.
4	And where I go you know, and the way you know.
5	Thomas said to him, Lord, we know not where you go; and how can we know the way?
6	Jesus said to him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man comes to the Father, but by me.
7	If you had known me, you should have known my Father also: and from now on you know him, and have seen him.
8	Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it suffises us.
9	Jesus said to him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet have you not known me, Philip? he that has seen me has seen the Father; and how say you then, Show us the Father?
10	Believe you not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? the words that I speak to you I speak not of myself: but the Father that dwells in me, he does the works.
11	Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me: or else believe me for the very works’ sake.
12	Truly, truly, I say to you, He that believes on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go to my Father.
13	And whatever you shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
14	If you shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it.
15	If you love me, keep my commandments.
16	And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever;
17	Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it sees him not, neither knows him: but you know him; for he dwells with you, and shall be in you.
18	I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.
19	Yet a little while, and the world sees me no more; but you see me: because I live, you shall live also.
20	At that day you shall know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you.
21	He that has my commandments, and keeps them, he it is that loves me: and he that loves me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.
22	Judas said to him, not Iscariot, Lord, how is it that you will manifest yourself to us, and not to the world?
23	Jesus answered and said to him, If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come to him, and make our stayed with him.
24	He that loves me not keeps not my sayings: and the word which you hear is not mine, but the Father’s which sent me.
25	These things have I spoken to you, being yet present with you.
26	But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatever I have said to you.
27	Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you: not as the world gives, give I to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.
28	You have heard how I said to you, I go away, and come again to you. If you loved me, you would rejoice, because I said, I go to the Father: for my Father is greater than I.
29	And now I have told you before it come to pass, that, when it is come to pass, you might believe.
30	Hereafter I will not talk much with you: for the prince of this world comes, and has nothing in me.
31	But that the world may know that I love the Father; and as the Father gave me commandment, even so I do. Arise, let us go hence.