1	There was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews:
2	The same came to Jesus by night, and said to him, Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher come from God: for no man can do these miracles that you do, except God be with him.
3	Jesus answered and said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
4	Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old? can he enter the second time into his mother’s womb, and be born?
5	Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
6	That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
7	Marvel not that I said to you, You must be born again.
8	The wind blows where it wants, and you hear the sound thereof, but can not tell from where it comes, and where it goes: so is every one that is born of the Spirit.
9	Nicodemus answered and said to him, How can these things be?
10	Jesus answered and said to him, Are you a master of Israel, and know not these things?
11	Truly, truly, I say to you, We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen; and you receive not our witness.
12	If I have told you earthly things, and you believe not, how shall you believe, if I tell you of heavenly things?
13	And no man has ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, even the Son of man which is in heaven.
14	And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up:
15	That whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life.
16	For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.
17	For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.
18	He that believes on him is not condemned: but he that believes not is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God.
19	And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil.
20	For every one that does evil hates the light, neither comes to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved.
21	But he that does truth comes to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are worked in God.
22	After these things came Jesus and his disciples into the land of Judaea; and there he tarried with them, and baptized.
23	And John also was baptizing in Aenon near to Salim, because there was much water there: and they came, and were baptized.
24	For John was not yet cast into prison.
25	Then there arose a question between some of John’s disciples and the Jews about purifying.
26	And they came to John, and said to him, Rabbi, he that was with you beyond Jordan, to whom you bore witness, behold, the same baptizes, and all men come to him.
27	John answered and said, A man can receive nothing, except it be given him from heaven.
28	You yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I am sent before him.
29	He that has the bride is the bridegroom: but the friend of the bridegroom, which stands and hears him, rejoices greatly because of the bridegroom’s voice: this my joy therefore is fulfilled.
30	He must increase, but I must decrease.
31	He that comes from above is above all: he that is of the earth is earthly, and speaks of the earth: he that comes from heaven is above all.
32	And what he has seen and heard, that he testifies; and no man receives his testimony.
33	He that has received his testimony has set to his seal that God is true.
34	For he whom God has sent speaks the words of God: for God gives not the Spirit by measure to him.
35	The Father loves the Son, and has given all things into his hand.
36	He that believes on the Son has everlasting life: and he that believes not the Son shall not see life; but the wrath of God stays on him.