1	When Jesus had said these things, he departed with his disciples across the Torrent of Kidron, where there was a garden, into which he entered with his disciples.
2	But Judas, who betrayed him, also knew the place, for Jesus had frequently met with his disciples there.
3	Then Judas, when he had received a cohort from both the high priests and the attendants of the Pharisees, approached the place with lanterns and torches and weapons.
4	And so Jesus, knowing all that was about to happen to him, advanced and said to them, “Who are you seeking?”
5	They answered him, “Jesus the Nazarene.” Jesus said to them, “I am he.” Now Judas, who betrayed him, was also standing with them.
6	Then, when he said to them, “I am he,” they moved back and fell to the ground.
7	Then again he questioned them: “Who are you seeking?” And they said, “Jesus the Nazarene.”
8	Jesus responded: “I told you that I am he. Therefore, if you are seeking me, permit these others to go away.”
9	This was so that the word might be fulfilled, which he said, “Of those whom you have given to me, I have not lost any of them.”
10	Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it, and he struck the servant of the high priest, and he cut off his right ear. Now the name of the servant was Malchus.
11	Therefore, Jesus said to Peter: “Set your sword into the scabbard. Should I not drink the chalice which my Father has given to me?”
12	Then the cohort, and the tribune, and the attendants of the Jews apprehended Jesus and bound him.
13	And they led him away, first to Annas, for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was the high priest that year.
14	Now Caiaphas was the one who had given counsel to the Jews that it was expedient for one man to die for the people.
15	And Simon Peter was following Jesus with another disciple. And that disciple was known to the high priest, and so he entered with Jesus into the court of the high priest.
16	But Peter was standing outside at the entrance. Therefore, the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the woman who was the doorkeeper, and he led in Peter.
17	Therefore, the woman servant keeping the door said to Peter, “Are you not also among the disciples of this man?” He said, “I am not.”
18	Now the servants and attendants were standing before burning coals, for it was cold, and they were warming themselves. And Peter was standing with them also, warming himself.
19	Then the high priest questioned Jesus about his disciples and about his doctrine.
20	Jesus responded to him: “I have spoken openly to the world. I have always taught in the synagogue and in the temple, where all the Jews meet. And I have said nothing in secret.
21	Why do you question me? Question those who heard what I said to them. Behold, they know these things that I have said.”
22	Then, when he had said this, one the attendants standing nearby struck Jesus, saying: “Is this the way you answer the high priest?”
23	Jesus answered him: “If I have spoken wrongly, offer testimony about the wrong. But if I have spoken correctly, then why do you strike me?”
24	And Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas, the high priest.
25	Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. Then they said to him, “Are you not also one of his disciples?” He denied it and said, “I am not.”
26	One of the servants of the high priest (a relative of him whose ear Peter had cut off) said to him, “Did I not see you in the garden with him?”
27	Therefore, again, Peter denied it. And immediately the rooster crowed.
28	Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas into the praetorium. Now it was morning, and so they did not enter into the praetorium, so that they would not be defiled, but might eat the Passover.
29	Therefore, Pilate went outside to them, and he said, “What accusation are you bringing against this man?”
30	They responded and said to him, “If he were not an evil-doer, we would not have handed him over you.”
31	Therefore, Pilate said to them, “Take him yourselves and judge him according to your own law.” Then the Jews said to him, “It is not lawful for us to execute anyone.”
32	This was so that the word of Jesus would be fulfilled, which he spoke signifying what kind of death he would die.
33	Then Pilate entered the praetorium again, and he called Jesus and said to him, “You are the king of the Jews?”
34	Jesus responded, “Are you saying this of yourself, or have others spoken to you about me?”
35	Pilate responded: “Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the high priests have handed you over to me. What have you done?”
36	Jesus responded: “My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my ministers would certainly strive so that I would not be handed over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not now from here.”
37	And so Pilate said to him, “You are a king, then?” Jesus answered, “You are saying that I am a king. For this I was born, and for this I came into the world: so that I may offer testimony to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice.”
38	Pilate said to him, “What is truth?” And when he had said this, he went out again to the Jews, and he said to them, “I find no case against him.
39	But you have a custom, that I should release someone to you at the Passover. Therefore, do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews?”
40	Then they all cried out repeatedly, saying: “Not this one, but Barabbas.” Now Barabbas was a robber.