1	Collect yourselves together and be ye collected, O nation not ashamed;
2	Before the law bring forth, as the chaff the day passing away before the burning of the anger of Jehovah shall not come upon you, before the day of the anger of Jehovah shall not come upon you.
3	Seek Jehovah, all ye humble of the earth, who did his judgment; seek justice, seek humility: perhaps ye shall be covered in the day of the anger of Jehovah.
4	For Gaza shall be forsaken, and Ashkelon for a desolation: they shall thrust out Ashdod at noon, and Ekron shall be rooted up.
5	Wo! to the inhabitants of the region of the sea, the nation of the Cherethites: the word of Jehovah is upon you, O Canaan, the land of the rovers, and I destroyed thee from none inhabiting.
6	And the region of the sea was a dwelling, and a cutting off of the shepherds and sheepfolds.
7	And the region was for the remnant of the house of Judah; upon them they shall feed: in the houses of Ashkelon they shall lie down in the evening: for Jehovah their God shall review them, and turn back their captivity.
8	I heard the reproach of Moab, and the revilings of the sons of Ammon which they reproached my people, and they will magnify against their border.
9	For this. I live, says Jehovah of armies, God of Israel, for Moab shall be as Sodom, and the sons of Ammon as Gomorrah, the possession of the thorn-bush and salt-pits, and a desolation even to forever: the remnant of my people shall plunder them, and the rest of my nation shall inherit them.
10	This to them for their pride, for they reproached and they will magnify against the people of Jehovah of armies.
11	God being terrible to them, for he made lean all the gods of the earth; and they shall worship to him each from his place, all the isles of the nations.
12	Also ye Cushites, they being wounded by my sword.
13	And he will stretch out his hand against the north, and he will destroy Assur; and he will set Nineveh for a desolation, a dryness as the desert.
14	And the flocks lay down in the midst of her, all the beasts of the nations: also the pelican, also the hedgehog shall lodge in her capitals; a voice shall sing in the window; desolation in the threshold: for the cedar was naked.
15	This the exulting city dwelling confidently, saying in her heart, I, and none besides me. How was she for a desolation, a piece of lying down for the beast! all passing by her shall hiss and wave his hand.